Prologue


	It’s funny, Vasher thought, how many things begin with me getting thrown into prison.
	The guards laughed to one another, slamming the cell door shut with a clang.  Vasher stood and dusted himself off, rolling his shoulder and wincing.  While the bottom half of his cell door was solid wood, the top half was barred, and he could see the three guards open his large duffle and rifle through his possessions.
	One of them noticed him watching.  The guard was an oversized beast of a man with a shaved head and a dirty uniform that barely retained the bright yellow and blue coloring of the T’Telir city guard.  
	Bright colors, Vasher thought.  I’ll have to get used to those again.  In any other nation, the vibrant blues and yellows would have been ridiculous on soldiers.  This, however, was Hallandren: land of Returned Gods, Lifeless servants, BioChromatic research, and--of course--color. 
	The large guard sauntered up to the cell door, leaving his friends to amuse themselves with Vasher’s belongings.  “They say you’re pretty tough,” the man said, sizing up Vasher.
	Vasher did not respond.
	“The bartender says you beat down some twenty men in the brawl.”  The guard rubbed his chin.  “You don’t look that tough to me.  Either way, you should have known better than to strike a priest.  The others, they’ll spend a night locked up.  You, though. . .you’ll hang.  Colorless fool.”
	Vasher turned away.  His cell was functional, if unoriginal.  A thin slit at the top of one wall let in light, the stone walls dripped with water and moss, and a pile of dirty straw decomposed in the corner.
	“You ignoring me?” the guard asked, stepping closer to the door.  The colors of his uniform brightened, as if he’d stepped into a stronger light.  The change was slight.  Vasher didn’t have much Breath remaining, and so his aura didn’t do much to the colors around him.  The guard didn’t notice the change in color--just as he hadn’t noticed back in the bar, when he and his buddies had picked Vasher up off the floor and thrown him in their cart.  Of course, the change was so slight to the unaided eye that it would have been nearly impossible to pick out.
	“Here, now,” said one of the men looking through Vasher’s duffle.  “What’s this?”  Vasher had always found it interesting that the men who watched dungeons tended to be as bad as, or worse than, the men they guarded.  Perhaps that was deliberate.  Society didn’t seem to care if such men were outside the cells or in them, so long as they were kept away from more honest men.
	Assuming that such a thing existed.  
	From Vasher’s bag, a guard pulled free a long object wrapped in white linen.  The man whistled as he unwrapped the cloth, revealing a long, thin-bladed sword in a silver sheath.  The hilt was pure black.  “Who do you suppose he stole this from?”
	The lead guard eyed Vasher, likely wondering if Vasher were some kind of nobleman.  Though Hallandren had no aristocracy, many neighboring kingdoms had their lords and ladies.  Yet what lord would wear a drab brown cloak, ripped in several places?  What lord would sport bruises from a bar fight, a half-grown beard, and boots worn from years of walking?  The guard turned away, apparently convinced that Vasher was no lord.
	He was right.  And he was wrong.
	“Let me see that,” the lead guard said, taking the sword.  He grunted, obviously surprised by its weight.  He turned it about, noting the clasp that tied sheath to hilt, keeping the blade from being drawn.  He undid the clasp.
	The colors in the room deepened.  They didn’t grow brighter--not like the guard’s vest had when he approached Vasher.  Instead, they grew stronger.  Darker.  Reds became maroon.  Yellows hardened to gold.  Blues approached navy. 
	“Be careful, friend,” Vasher said softly, “that sword can be dangerous.” 
	The guard looked up.  All was still.  Then, the guard snorted and walked away from Vasher’s cell, still carrying the sword.  The other two followed, bearing Vasher’s duffle, entering the guard room at the end of the hallway.
	The door thumped shut.  Vasher immediately knelt beside the patch of straw, selecting a handful of sturdy lengths.  He pulled threads from his cloak--it was beginning to fray at the bottom--and tied the straw into the shape of a small person, perhaps three inches high, with bushy arms and legs.  He plucked a hair from one of his eyebrows, set it against the straw figure’s head, then reached into his boot and pulled out a brilliant red scarf.
	Then Vasher Breathed. 
	It flowed out of him, puffing into the air, translucent yet radiant, like the color of oil on water in the sun.  Vasher felt it leave: BioChromatic Breath, scholars called it.  Most people just called it Breath.  Each person had one.  Or, at least, that was how it usually went.  One person, one Breath.
	Vasher had around fifty Breaths, just enough to reach the First Heightening.  Having so few made him feel poor compared to once he’d once held, but many would consider fifty Breaths to be a great treasure.  Unfortunately, even Awakening a small figure made from organic material--using a piece of his own body as a focus--drained away some half of his Breaths.  
	The little straw figure jerked, sucking in the Breath.  In Vasher’s hand, half of the brilliant red scarf faded to grey.  Vasher leaned down--imagining what he wanted the figure to do--and completed the final step of the process as he gave the Command.  
	“Fetch keys,” he said.
	The straw figure stood and raised its single eyebrow toward Vasher.
	Vasher pointed toward the guard room.  From it, he heard sudden shouts of surprise. 
	Not much time, he thought.
	The straw person ran along the floor, then jumped up, vaulting between the bars.  Vasher pulled off his cloak and set it on the floor.  It was the perfect shape of a person--marked with rips that matched the scars on Vasher’s body, its hood cut with holes to match Vasher’s eyes.  The closer an object was to human shape and form, the fewer Breaths it took to Awaken.
	Vasher leaned down, trying not to think of the days when he’d had enough Breaths to Awaken without regard for shape or focus.  That had been a different time.  Wincing, he pulled a tuft of hair from his head, then sprinkled it across the hood of the cloak.  
	Once again, he Breathed.
	It took the rest of his Breath.  With it gone--the cloak trembling, the scarf losing the rest of its color--Vasher felt. . .dimmer.  Losing one’s Breath was not fatal.  Indeed, the extra Breaths Vasher used had once belonged to other people.  Vasher didn’t know who they were; he hadn’t gathered these Breaths himself.  They had been given to him.  But, of course, that was the way it was always supposed to work.  One could not take Breath by force. 
	Being void of Breath did change him.  Colors didn’t seem as bright.  He couldn’t feel the bustling people moving about in the city above, a connection he normally took for granted.  It was the awareness all men had for others--that thing which whispered a warning, in the drowsiness of sleep, when someone entered the room.  In Vasher, that sense had been magnified fifty times.
	And now it was gone.  Sucked into the cloak and the straw person, giving them power. 
	The cloak jerked.  Vasher leaned down.  “Protect me,” he Commanded, and the cloak grew still.  He stood, throwing it back on.  
	The straw figure returned to his window.  It carried a large ring of keys.  The figure’s straw feet were stained red.  The crimson blood seemed so dull to Vasher now.  
	He took the keys.  “Thank you,” he said.  He always thanked them.  He didn’t know why, particularly considering what he did next.  “Your Breath to mine,” he commanded, touching the straw person’s chest.  The straw person immediately fell backward off the door--life draining from it--and Vasher got his Breath back.  The familiar sense of awareness returned, the knowledge of connectedness, of fitting.  He could only take the Breath back because he’d Awakened this creature himself--indeed, Awakenings of this sort were rarely permanent.  He used his Breath like a reserve, doling it out, then recovering it.
	Compared to what he had once held, twenty-five Breaths was a laughably small number.  However, compared to nothing, it seemed infinite.  He shivered in satisfaction.
	The yells from the guard room died out.  The dungeon fell still.  He had to keep moving.
	Vasher reached through the bars, using the keys to unlock his cell.  He pushed the thick door open, rushing out into the hallway, leaving the straw figure discarded on the ground.  He didn’t walk to the guard room--and the exit beyond it--but instead turned south, penetrating deeper into the dungeon.
	This was the most uncertain part of his plan.  Finding a tavern that was frequented by priests of the Iridescent Tones had been easy enough.  Getting into a bar fight--then striking one of those same priests--had been equally simple.  Hallandrens took their religious figures very seriously, and Vasher had earned himself not the usual imprisonment in a local jail, but a trip to the God King’s dungeons.  
	Knowing the kind of men who tended to guard such dungeons, he’d had a pretty good idea that they would try to draw Nightblood.  That had given him the diversion he’d needed to get the keys.
	But now came the unpredictable part.
	Vasher stopped, Awakened cloak rustling.  It easy to locate the cell he wanted, for around it a large patch of stone had been drained of color, leaving both walls and doors a dull grey.  It was a place to imprison an Awakener, for no color meant no Awakening.  Vasher stepped up to the door, looking through the bars.  A man hung by his arms from the ceiling, naked and chained.  His color was vibrant to Vasher’s eyes, his skin a pure tan, his bruises brilliant splashes of blue and violet.
	The man was gagged.  Another precaution.  In order to Awaken, the man would need three things: Breath, color, and a Command.  The Harmonics and the Hues, some called it.  The Iridescent tones, the relationship between color and sound.  A Command had to be spoken clearly and firmly in the Awakener’s native language--any stuttering, any mispronunciation, would invalidate the Awakening.  The Breath would be drawn out, but the object would be unable to act. 
	Vasher used the prison keys to unlock the cell door, then stepped inside.  This man’s aura made colors grow brighter by sharp measure when they got close to him.  Anyone would be able to notice an aura that strong, though it was much easier for someone who had reached the First Heightening.
	It wasn’t the strongest BioChromatic aura Vasher had ever seen--those belonged to the Returned, known as gods here in Hallandren.  Still, the prisoner’s BioChroma was very impressive and much, much stronger than Vasher’s own.  The prisoner held a lot of Breaths.  Hundreds upon hundreds of them.
	The man swung in his bonds, studying Vasher, gagged lips bleeding from lack of water.  Vasher hesitated only briefly, then reached up and pulled the gag free.
	“You,” the prisoner whispered, coughing slightly.  “Are you here to free me?”
	“No, Vahr,” Vasher said quietly.  “I’m here to kill you.”
	Vahr snorted.  Captivity hadn’t been easy on him.  When Vasher had last seen Vahr, he’d been plump.  Judging by his emaciated body, he’d been without food for some time now.  The cuts, bruises, and burn marks on his flesh were fresh.  
	Both the torture and the haunted look in Vahr’s bag-rimmed eyes bespoke a solemn truth.  Breath could only be transferred by willing, intentional Command.  That Command could, however, be encouraged.  
	“So,” Vahr croaked, “you judge me, just like everyone else.”
	“Your failed rebellion is not my concern.  I just want your Breath.”
	“You and the entire Hallandren court.”
	“Yes.  But you’re not going to give it to one of the Returned.  You’re going to give it to me.  In exchange for killing you.”
	“Doesn’t seem like much of a trade.”  There was a hardness--a void of emotion--in Vahr that Vasher had not seen the last time they had parted, years before.
	Odd, Vasher thought, that I should finally, after all of this time, find something in the man that I can identify with.
	Vasher kept a wary distance from Vahr.  Now that the man’s voice was free, he could Command.  However, he was touching nothing except for the metal chains, and metal was very difficult to Awaken.  It had never been alive, and it was far from the form of a man.  Even during the height of his power, Vasher himself had only managed to Awaken metal on a few, select occasions.  Of course, some extremely powerful Awakeners could bring objects to life that they weren’t touching, but which were in the sound of their voice.  That, however, required the Ninth Heightening.  Even Vahr didn’t have that much Breath.  In fact, Vasher knew of only one living person who did: the God King himself.
	That meant Vasher was probably safe.  Vahr contained a great wealth of Breath, but had nothing to Awaken.  Vasher walked around the chained man, finding it very difficult to offer any sympathy.  Vahr had earned his fate.  Yet the priests would not let him die while he held so much Breath; if he died, it would be wasted.  Gone.  Irretrievable.  
	Not even the government of Hallandren--which had such strict laws about the buying and passing of Breath--could let such a treasure slip away.  They wanted it badly enough to forestall the execution of even a high-profile criminal like Vahr.  In retrospect, they would curse themselves for not leaving him better guarded.  
	But, then, Vasher had been waiting two years for an opportunity like this one.  
	“Well?” Vahr asked.
	“Give me the Breath, Vahr,” Vasher said, stepping forward.
	Vahr snorted.  “I doubt you have the skill of the God King’s torturers, Vasher--and I’ve withstood them for two weeks now.”
	“You’d be surprised.  But that doesn’t matter.  You are going to give me your Breath.  You know you have only two choices.  Give it to me, or give it to them.”
	Vahr hung by his wrists, rotating slowly.  Silent.  
	“You don’t have much time to consider,” Vasher said.  “Any moment now, someone is going to discover the dead guards outside.  The alarm will be raised.  I’ll leave you, you will be tortured again, and you will eventually break.  Then all the power you’ve gathered will go to the very people you vowed to destroy.”
	Vahr stared at the floor.  Vasher let him hang for a few moments, and could see that the reality of the situation was clear to him.  Finally, Vahr looked up at Vasher.  “That. . .thing you bear.  It’s here, in the city?”
	Vasher nodded.
	“The screams I heard earlier?  It caused them?”
	Vasher nodded again.
	“How long will you be in T’Telir?”
	“For a time.  A year, perhaps.”
	“Will you use it against them?”
	“My goals are my own to know, Vahr.  Will you take my deal or not?  Quick death in exchange for those Breaths.  I promise you this.  Your enemies will not have them.” 
	Vahr grew quiet.  “It’s yours,” he finally whispered.  
	Vasher reached over, resting his hand on Vahr’s forehead--careful not to let any part of his clothing touch the man’s skin, lest Vahr draw forth color for Awakening.
	Vahr didn’t move.  He looked numb.  Then, just as Vasher began to worry that the prisoner had changed his mind, Vahr Breathed.  The color drained from him.  The beautiful Iridescence, the aura that had made him look majestic despite his wounds and chains.  It flowed from his mouth, hanging in the air, shimmering like mist.  Vasher drew it in, closing his eyes.
	“My life to yours,” Vahr Commanded, a hint of despair in his voice.  “My Breath become yours.”
	The Breath flooded into Vasher, and everything became vibrant.  His brown cloak now seemed deep and rich in color.  The blood on the floor was intensely red, as if aflame.   Even Vahr’s skin seemed a masterpiece of color, the surface marked by deep black hairs, blue bruises, and sharp red cuts.  It had been years since Vasher had felt such. . .life.  
	He gasped, falling to his knees as it overwhelmed him, and he had to drop a hand to the stone floor to keep himself from toppling over.   How did I live without this? 
	He knew that his senses hadn’t actually improved, yet he felt so much more alert.  More aware of the beauty of sensation.  When he touched the stone floor, he marveled at its roughness.  And the sound of wind passing through the thin dungeon window up above.  Had it always been that melodic?  How could he not have noticed?
	“Keep your part of the bargain,” Vahr said.  Vasher noted the tones in his voice, the beauty of each one, how close they were to harmonics.  Vasher had gained perfect pitch.  A gift for anyone who reached the Second Heightening.  It would be good to have that again.  
	Vasher could, of course, have up to the Fifth Heightening at any time, if he wished.  That would require certain sacrifices he wasn’t willing to make.  And so, he forced himself to do it the old fashioned way, by gathering Breaths from people like Vahr.
	Vasher stood, then pulled out the colorless scarf he had used earlier.  He tossed it over Vahr’s shoulder, then Breathed.  
	He didn’t bother making the scarf have human shape, didn’t need to use a bit of his hair or skin for a focus--though he did have to draw the color from his shirt.  
	Vasher met Vahr’s resigned eyes.  
	“Strangle things,” Vasher Commanded, fingers touching the quivering scarf.
	It twisted immediately, pulling away a large--yet now inconsequential--amount of Breath.  The scarf quickly wrapped around Vahr’s neck, tightening, choking him.  Vahr didn’t struggle or gasp, he simply watched Vasher with hatred until his eyes bulged and he died.
	Hatred.  Vasher had known enough of that in his time.  He quietly reached up and recovered his Breath from the scarf, then left Vahr dangling in his cell.  Vasher passed quietly though the prison, marveling at the color of the woods and the stones.  After a few moments of walking, he noticed a new color in the hallway.  Red.  
	He stepped around the pool of blood--which was seeping down the inclined dungeon floor--and moved into the guard room.  The three guards lay dead.  One of them sat in a chair.  Nightblood, still mostly sheathed, had been rammed through the man’s chest.  About an inch of a dark black blade was visible beneath the silver sheath.  
	Vasher carefully slid the weapon fully back into its sheath.  He did up the clasp. 
	I did very well today, a voice said in his mind.
	Vasher didn’t respond to the sword.
	I killed them all, Nightblood continued.  Aren’t you proud of me?
	Vasher picked up the weapon, accustomed to its unusual weight, and carried it in one hand.  He recovered his duffle and slung it over his shoulder.
	I knew you’d be impressed, Nightblood said, sounding satisfied.   

Chapter One

	There were great advantages to being unimportant. 
	True, by many people’s standards, Siri wasn’t ‘unimportant.’  She was, after all, the daughter of a king.  Fortunately, her father had four living children, and Siri--at seventeen years of age--was the youngest.  Fafen, the daughter just older than Siri, had done the family duty and become a monk.  Above Fafen was Ridger, the eldest son.  He would inherit the throne.  
	And then there was Vivenna.  Siri sighed as she walked down the path back to the city.  Vivenna, the firstborn, was. . .well. . .Vivenna.  Beautiful, poised, perfect in most every way.  It was a good thing, too, considering the fact that she was betrothed to a god.  Either way, Siri--as fourth child--was redundant.  Vivenna and Ridger had to focus on their studies; Fafen had to do her work in the pastures and homes.  Siri, however, could get away with being unimportant.  That meant she could disappear into the wilderness for hours at a time.  
	People would notice, of course, and she would get into trouble.  Yet even her father would have to admit that her disappearance hadn’t caused much inconvenience.  The city got along just fine without Siri--in fact, it tended to do a little better when she wasn’t around.  
	Unimportance.  To another, it might have been offensive.  To Siri, however, it was a blessing.  
	She smiled, walking into the city proper.  She drew the inevitable stares.  While Bevalis was technically the capital of Idris, it wasn’t that big, and everyone knew her by sight.  Judging by the stories Siri had heard from passing ramblemen, her home was hardly even a village compared to the massive metropolises in other nations.  
	She liked it the way it was, even with the muddy streets, the thatched cottages, and the boring--yet sturdy--stone walls.  Women chasing runaway geese, men pulling donkeys laden with spring seed, and children leading sheep on their way to pasture.  A grand city in Xaka, Hudres, or even terrible Hallandren might have exotic sights, but it would be crowded with faceless shouting, jostling crowds, and haughty noblemen.  Not Siri’s preference; she generally found even Bevalis to be a bit busy for her.  
	Still, she thought, looking down at her utilitarian grey dress, I’ll bet those cities have more colors.  That’s something I might like to see.
	Her hair wouldn’t stand out so much there.  As usual, the long locks had gone blonde with joy while she’d been out in the fields.  She concentrated, trying to rein them in, but she was only able to bring the color to a dull brown.  As soon as she stopped focusing, her hair just went back to the way it had been.  She’d never been very good at controlling it.  Not like Vivenna.  
	As she continued through the town, a group of small figures began trailing her.  She smiled, pretending to ignore the children until one of them was brave enough to run forward and tug on her dress.  Then she turned, smiling.  They regarded her with solemn faces.  Idris children were trained even at this age to avoid shameful outbursts of emotion.  Austrin teachings said there was nothing wrong with feelings, but drawing attention to yourself with them was wrong.   
	Siri had never been very devout.  It wasn’t her fault, she reasoned, if Austre had made her with a distinct inability to obey.  The children waited patiently until Siri reached into her apron and pulled out a couple of brightly colored flowers.  The children’s eyes opened wide, gazing at the vibrant colors.  Three of the flowers were blue, one yellow.  
	The flowers stood out starkly against the town’s determined drabness.  Other than what one could find in the skin and eyes of the people, there wasn’t a drop of color in sight.  Stones had been whitewashed, clothing bleached grey or tan.  All to keep the color away.  
	For without color, there could be no Awakeners.  
	The girl who had tugged Siri’s skirt finally took the flowers in one hand and dashed away with them, the other children following behind.  Siri caught a look of disproval in the eyes of several passing villagers.  None of them confronted her, though.  Being a princess--even an unimportant one--did have its perks. 
	She continued on toward the palace.  It was a low, single-story building with a large, packed-earth courtyard.  Siri avoided the crowds of haggling people at the front, rounding to the back and going in the kitchen entrance.  Mab, the kitchen mistress, stopped singing as the door opened, then eyed Siri.
	“Your father’s been looking for you, child,” Mab said, turning away and humming as she attacked a pile of onions.
	“I suspect that he has.” Siri walked over and sniffed at a pot, which bore the calm scent of boiling potatoes. 
	“Went to the hills again, didn’t you?  Skipped your tutorial sessions, I’ll bet.” 
	Siri smiled, then pulled out another of the bright yellow flowers, spinning it between two fingers.
	Mab rolled her eyes.  “And been corrupting the city youth again, I suspect.  Honestly, girl, you should be beyond these things at your age.  Your father will have words with you about shirking your responsibilities.”
	“I like words,” Siri said.  “And I always learn a few new ones when father gets angry.  I shouldn’t neglect my education, now should I?”
	Mab snorted, dicing some pickled cucumbers into the onions.  
	“Honestly, Mab,” Siri said, twirling the flower, feeling her hair shade a little bit red.  “I don’t see what the problem is.  Austre made the flowers, right?  He put the colors on them, so they can’t be evil.  I mean, we call him God of Colors, for heaven’s sake.”
	“Flowers ain’t evil,” Mab said, adding something that looked like grass to her concoction, “assuming they’re left where Austre put them.  We shouldn’t use Austre’s beauty to make ourselves more important.”
	“A flower doesn’t make me look more important.”
	“Oh?” Mab asked, adding the grass, cucumber, and onions to one of her boiling pots.  She banged the side of the pot with the flat of her knife, listening, then nodded to herself and began fishing under the counter for more vegetables.  “You tell me,” she continued, voice muffled.  “You really think walking through the city with a flower like that didn’t draw attention to yourself?”
	“That’s only because the city is so drab.  If there were a bit of color around, nobody would notice a flower.”
	Mab reappeared, hefting a box filled with various tubers. “You’d have us decorate the place like Hallandren?  Maybe we should start inviting Awakeners into the city?  How’d you like that?  Some devil sucking the souls out of children, strangling people with their own clothing?  Bringing men back from the grave, then using their dead bodies for cheap labor?  Sacrificing women on their unholy altars?”
 	Siri felt her hair whiten slightly with anxiety.  Stop that! she thought.  The hair seemed to have a mind of its own, responding to gut feelings.  
	“That sacrificing maidens part is only a story,” Siri said.  “They don’t really do that.”
	“Stories come from somewhere.”
	“Yes, they come from old women sitting by the hearth in the winter.  Either way, I don’t think we need to be so frightened.  The Hallandrens will do what they want, which is fine by me, as long as they leave us alone.”
	Mab chopped tubers, not looking up.  
	“We’ve got the treaty, Mab,” Siri said.  “Father and Vivenna will make sure we’re safe, and that will make the Hallandren leave us alone.  ” 
	“And if they don’t?”
	“They will.  You don’t need to worry.”
	“They have better armies,” Mab said, chopping, not looking up, “better steel, more food, and those. . .those things.  It makes people worry.  Maybe not you, but sensible folk.”
	The cook’s words were hard to dismiss out of hand.  Mab had a sense, a wisdom beyond her instinct for spices and broths.  However, she also tended to fret.  “You’re worrying about nothing, Mab.  You’ll see.”
	“I’m just saying that this is a bad time for a royal princess to be running around with flowers, standin’ out and inviting Austre’s dislike.”
	Siri sighed.  “Fine, then,” she said, tossing her last flower into the stew pot.  “Now we can all stand out together.”
	Mab froze, then rolled her eyes, chopping a root.  “I assume that was a vanavel flower?”
	“Of course,” Siri said, sniffing at the steaming pot.  “I know better than to ruin a good stew.  And I still say you’re overreacting.” 
	Mab sniffed.  “Here,” she said, pulling out another knife.  “Make yourself useful.  There’s roots that need choppin.”
	“Shouldn’t I report to my father?” Siri said, grabbing a gnarled vanavel root and beginning to chop. 
	“He’ll just send you back here and make you work in the kitchens as a punishment,” Mab said, banging the pot with her knife again.  She firmly believed that she could judge when a dish was done by the way the pot rang.
	“Austre help me if father ever discovers I like it down here.”
	“You just like being close to the food,” Mab said, fishing Siri’s flower out of the stew then tossing it aside.  “Either way, you can’t report to him.  He’s in conference with Yarda.”
	Siri gave no reaction--she simply continued to chop.  Her hair, however, grew blonde with excitement.  Father’s conferences with Yarda usually last hours, she thought.  Not much point in simply sitting around, waiting for him to get done. . . .
	Mab turned to get something off the table, and by the time she looked back, Siri had bolted out the door and was on her way toward the royal stables.  Bare minutes later, she galloped away from the palace, wearing her favorite brown cloak, feeling an exhilarated thrill that sent her hair into a deep blonde.  A nice quick ride would be a good way to round out the day.
	After all, her punishment was likely to be the same either way.
#
	Dedelin, king of Idris, set the letter down on his desk.  He had stared at it long enough. It was time to decide whether or not to send his eldest daughter to her death.
	Despite the advent of spring, his chamber was cold.  Warmth was a rare thing in the Idris Highlands; it was coveted and enjoyed, for it lingered only briefly each summer.  The chambers were also stark.  There was a beauty in simplicity.  Even a king had no right to display arrogance by ostentation.
	Dedelin stood up, looking out his window and into the courtyard.  The palace was small by the world’s standards--only a single story high, with a peaked wooden roof and squat stone walls.  But it was large by Idris standards, and it bordered on flamboyant.  This could be forgiven, for the palace was also a meeting hall and center of operations for his entire kingdom.
	The king could see General Yarda out of the corner of his eye.  The burly man stood waiting, his hands clasped behind his back, his thick beard tied in three places.  He was the only other person in the room.
	Dedelin glanced back at the letter.  The paper was a bright pink, and the garish color stood out on his desk like a drop of blood in the snow.  Pink was a color one would never see in Idris.  In Hallandren, however--center of the world’s dye industry--such tasteless hues were commonplace.
	“Well, old friend?” Dedelin asked.  “Do you have any advice for me?”
	General Yarda shook his head.  “War is coming, your majesty.  I feel it in the winds and read it in the reports of our spies.  Hallandren still considers us rebels, and our passes to the north are too tempting.  They will attack.”
	“Then I shouldn’t send her,” Dedelin said, looking back out his window.  The courtyard bustled with people in furs and cloaks coming to market.
	“We can’t stop the war, your majesty,” Yarda said.  “But. . .we can slow it.”
	Dedelin turned back.
	Yarda stepped forward, speaking softly.  “This is not a good time.  Our troops still haven’t recovered from those Vendis raids last fall, and with the fires in the granary this winter. . . .”  Yarda shook his head.  “We cannot afford to get into a defensive war in the summer.  Our best ally against the Hallandren are the snows.  We can’t let this conflict occur on their terms.  If we do, we are dead.”
	The words all made sense.  
	“Your majesty,” Yarda said, “they are waiting for us to break the treaty as an excuse to attack.  If we move first, they will strike.”
	“If we keep the treaty, they will still strike,” Dedelin said.
	“But later.  Perhaps months later.  You know how slow Hallandren politics are.  If we keep the treaty, there will be debates and arguments.  If those last until the snows, then we will have gained the time we need so badly.”
	It all made sense.  Brutal, honest sense.  All these years, Dedelin had stalled and watched as the Hallandren court grew more and more aggressive, more and more agitated.  Every year, voices called for an assault on the ‘Rebel Idrians’ living up in the highlands.  Every year, those voices grew louder and more plentiful.  Every year, Dedelin’s placating and politics kept the armies away.  He had hoped, perhaps, that the rebel leader Vahr and his Pahn Kahl dissidents would draw attention away from Idris, but Vahr had been captured, his so-called army dispersed.  His actions had only served to make Hallandren more focused on its enemies.
	The peace would not last.  Not with Idris ripe, not with the trade routes worth so much.  Not with the current crop of Hallandren Gods, who seemed so much more erratic than their predecessors.  He knew all of that.  But he also knew that breaking the treaty would be foolish.  When you were cast into the den of a beast, you did not provoke it to anger.  
	Yarda joined him beside the window, looking out, leaning one elbow against the side of the frame.  He was a harsh man born of harsh winters.  But he was also as good a man as Dedelin had ever known--a part of the king longed to marry Vivenna to the general’s own son.  
	That was foolishness.  Dedelin had always known this day would come.  He’d crafted the treaty himself, and it demanded he send his daughter to marry the God King.  The Hallandren needed a daughter of the royal blood to reintroduce the traditional bloodline into their monarchy.  It was something the depraved and vainglorious people of the lowlands had long coveted, and only that specific clause in the treaty had saved Idris these twenty years.
	That treaty had been the first official act of Dedelin’s rein, negotiated furiously following his father’s assassination.  Dedelin’s gritted his teeth.  How quickly he’d bowed before the whims of his enemies.  Yet he would do it again; an Idris monarch would do anything for his people.  That was one big difference between Idris and Hallandren.
	“If we send her, Yarda,” Dedelin said, “we send her to her death. “
	“Maybe they won’t harm her,” Yarda finally said.
	“You know better than that.  The first thing they’ll do when war comes is use her against me.  This is Hallandren.  They invite Awakeners into their palaces, for Austre’s sake!”
	Yarda fell silent.  Finally, he shook his head. “Latest reports say their army has grown to include some forty thousand Lifeless.” 
	Lord God of Colors, Dedelin thought, glancing at the letter again.  Its language was simple.  Vivenna’s twenty-second birthday had come, and the terms of the treaty stipulated that Dedelin could wait no longer.
	 “Sending Vivenna is a poor plan, but it’s our only plan,” Yarda said.  “With more time, I know I can bring the Tedradel to our cause--they’ve hated Hallandren since the Manywar.  And perhaps I can make find a way to rile Vahr’s broken rebel faction in Hallandren itself.  At the very least, we can build, gather supplies, live another year.”  Yarda turned to him.  “If we don’t send the Hallandren their princess, the war will be seen as our fault.  Who will support us?  They will demand to know why we refused to follow the treaty our own king wrote!”
	“And if we do send them Vivenna, it will introduce the royal blood into their monarchy, and that will have an even more legitimate claim on the highlands!”
	“Perhaps,” Yarda said.  “But if we both know they’re going to attack anyway, then what do we care about their claim?  At least this way, perhaps they will wait until an heir is born before the assault comes.” 
	More time.  The general always asked for more time.  But what about when that time came at the cost of Dedelin’s own child?  
	Yarda wouldn’t hesitate to send one soldier to die if it would mean time enough to get the rest of his troops into better position to attack, Dedelin thought.  We are Idris.  How can I ask anything less of my daughter than I’d demand of one of my troops?
	It was just that thinking of Vivenna in the God King’s arms, being forced to bear that creature’s child. . .it nearly made his hair bleach with concern.  That child would become a stillborn monster who would become the next Returned God of the Hallandren. 
	There is another way, a part of his mind whispered.  You don’t have to send Vivenna. . . .  
	A knock came at his door.  Both he and Yarda turned, and Dedelin called for the visitor to enter.  He should have been able to guess whom it would be.
	Vivenna stood in a quiet grey dress, looking so young to him still.  Yet, she was the perfect image of an Idris woman--hair kept in a modest knot, no makeup to draw attention to the face.  She was not timid or soft, like some noblewoman from the northern kingdoms.  She was just composed.  Composed, simple, hard, and capable.  Idrian.
	“You have been in here for several hours, father,” Vivenna said, bowing her head respectfully to Yarda.  “The servants speak of a colorful envelope carried by the general when he entered.  I believe I know what it contained.”
	Dedelin met her eyes, then waved for her to seat herself.  She softly closed the door, then took one of the wooden chairs from the side of the room.  Yarda remained standing, after the masculine fashion.  Vivenna eyed the letter sitting on the desk.  She was calm, her hair controlled and kept a respectful black.  She was twice as devout as Dedelin, and--unlike her youngest sister--she never drew attention to herself with fits of emotion.  
	“I assume that I should prepare myself for departure, then,” Vivenna said, hands in her lap.
	Dedelin opened his mouth, but could find no objection.  He glanced at Yarda, who just shook his head, resigned.
	“I have prepared my entire life for this, father,” Vivenna said.  “I am ready.  Siri, however, will not take this well.  She left on a ride an hour ago.  I should depart the city before she gets back.  That will avoid any potential scene she might make.”
	“Too late,” Yarda said, grimacing and nodding toward the window.  Just outside, people scattered in the courtyard as a figure galloped through the gates.  She wore a deep brown cloak that bordered on being too colorful, and--of course--she had her hair down.
	The hair was yellow.  
	Dedelin felt his rage and frustration growing.  Only Siri could make him lose control, and--as if in ironic counterpoint to the source of his anger--he felt his hair change.  To those watching, a few locks of hair on his head would have bled from black to red.  It was the identifying mark of the royal family, who had fled to the Idris Highlands at the climax of the Manywar.  Others could hide their emotions.  The royals, however, manifest what they felt in the very hair on their heads. 
	Vivenna watched him, pristine as always, and her poise gave him strength as he forced his hair to turn black again.  It took more willpower than any common man could understand to control the treasonous royal locks.  Dedelin wasn’t sure how Vivenna managed it so well.
	Poor girl never even had a childhood, he thought.  From birth, Vivenna’s life had been pointed toward this single event.  His firstborn child, the girl who had always seemed like a part of himself.  The girl who had always made him proud; the woman who had already earned the love and respect of her people.  In his mind’s eye he saw the queen she could become, stronger even than he.  Someone who could guide them through the dark days ahead. 
	But only if she survived that long.
	“I will prepare myself for the trip,” Vivenna said, rising.
	“No,” Dedelin said. 
	Yarda and Vivenna both turned. 
	“Father,” Vivenna said.  “If we break this treaty, it will mean war.  I am prepared to sacrifice for our people. You taught me that.”
	“You will not go,” Dedelin said firmly, turning back toward the window.  Outside, Siri was laughing with one of the stablemen.  Dedelin could hear her outburst even from a distance; her hair had turned a flame-colored red.
	Lord God of Colors, forgive me, he thought.  What a terrible choice for a father to make.  The treaty is specific: I must send the Hallandren my daughter when Vivenna reaches her twenty-first birthday.  But it doesn’t actually say which daughter I am required do send.   
	If he didn’t send Hallandren one of his daughters, they would attack immediately.  If he sent the wrong one, they might be angered, but he knew they wouldn’t attack.  They would wait until they had an heir.  That would gain Idris at least nine months.
	And. . . he thought  If they were to try to use Vivenna against me, I know that I wouldn’t be able to stop myself from giving in.  It was shameful to admit that fact, but in the end, it was what made the decision for him. 
	Dedelin turned back toward the room.  “Vivenna, you will not go to wed the tyrant god of our enemies.  I’m sending Siri in your place.”
 


Chapter Two

	Siri sat, stunned, in a rattling carriage, her homeland growing more and more distant with each bump and shake.
	Two days had passed, and she still didn’t understand.  This was supposed to be Vivenna’s task.  Everybody understood that.  Idris had thrown a celebration on the day of Vivenna’s birth.  The king had started her classes from the day she could walk, training her in the ways of court life and politics.  Fafen, the second daughter, had also taken the lessons in case Vivenna died before the day of the wedding.  But not Siri.  She’d been redundant.  Unimportant.  
	No more.
	She glanced out the window.  Her father had sent the kingdom’s nicest carriage--along with an honor guard of twenty soldiers--to bear her southward.  That, combined with a steward and several serving boys, made for a procession as grand as Siri had ever seen.  It bordered on ostentation, which might have thrilled her, had it not been bearing her away from Idris.  
	This isn’t the way it’s supposed to be, she thought.  This isn’t the way any of it is supposed to happen!
	And yet it had.  
	Nothing made sense.  The carriage bumped, but she just sat, numb.  At the very least, she thought, they could have let me ride horseback, rather than forcing me to sit in this carriage.  But that, unfortunately, wouldn’t have been an appropriate way to enter Hallandren.
	Hallandren.  
	She felt her hair bleach white with fear. She was being sent to Hallandren, a kingdom her people cursed with every second breath.  She wouldn’t see her father again for a long while, if ever.  She wouldn’t speak with Vivenna, or listen to the tutors, or be chided by Mab, or ride the royal horses, or go looking for flowers in the wilderness, or work in the kitchens.  She’d. . . .
	Marry the God King.  The terror of Hallandren, the monster that had never drawn a living breath.  In Hallandren, his power was absolute.  He could order an execution on a whim. 
	I’ll be safe, though, won’t I? she thought.  I’ll be his wife.
	Wife.  I’m getting married.
	Oh Austre, God of Colors. . . .  She thought, feeling sick.  She curled up with her legs against her chest--her hair growing so white that it seemed to shine--and lay down on the seat of the carriage, not sure if the shaking she felt was her own trembling or the carriage continuing its inexorable path southward.
#
	“I think that you should reconsider your decision, Father,” Vivenna said calmly, sitting decorously--as she’d been trained--with hands in her lap.
	“I’ve considered and reconsidered, Vivenna,” King Dedelin said, waving his hand.  “My mind is made up.”
	“Siri is not suited to this task.”
	“She’ll do fine,” her father said, looking through some papers on his desk.  “All she really needs to do is have a baby.  I’m certain she’s ‘suited’ to that task.”
	What then of my training? Vivenna thought.  Twenty-two years of preparation?  What was that, if the only point in being sent was to provide a convenient womb?
	She kept her hair black, her voice solemn, her face calm.  “Siri must be distraught,” she said.  “I don’t think she’s emotionally capable of dealing with this.”
	Her father looked up, his hair fading a bit red--the black bleeding away like paint running off a canvas.  It showed his annoyance.
	He’s more upset by her departure than he’s willing to admit.
	“This is for the best for our people, Vivenna,” he said, working--with obvious effort--to turn his hair black again.  “If war comes, Idris will need you here.”
	“If war comes, what of Siri?”
	Her father fell silent.  “Perhaps it won’t come,” he finally said.
	Austre. . . . Vivenna thought with shock.  He doesn’t believe that.  He thinks he’s sent her to her death.  
	“I know what you are thinking,” her father said, drawing her attention back to his eyes.  So solemn.  “How could I choose one over the other?  How could I send Siri to die and leave you here to live?  I didn’t do it based on personal preference, no matter what people may think.  I did what will be best for Idris when this war comes.”
	When this war comes.  Vivenna looked up, meeting his eyes.  “I was going to stop the war, Father.  I was to be the God King’s bride!  I was going to speak with him, persuade him.  I’ve been trained with the political knowledge, the understanding of customs, the--”	
	“Stop the war?” her father asked, cutting in.  Only then did Vivenna realize how brash she must have sounded.  She looked away.
	“Vivenna, child,” her father said.  “There is no stopping this war.  Only the promise of a daughter of the royal line kept them away this long, and sending Siri may buy us time.  And. . .perhaps I’ve sent her to safety, even when war flares.  Perhaps they will value her bloodline to the point that they leave her alive--a back up should the heir she bears pass away.”  He grew distant.  “Yes,” he continued, “perhaps it is not Siri we should be fearing for, but. . . .”
	But ourselves, Vivenna finished in her mind.  She was not privy to all of her father’s war planning, but she knew enough.  War would not favor Idris.  In a conflict with Hallandren, there was little chance they would win.  It would be devastating for their people and their way of life.
	“Father, I-- 
	“Please, Vivenna,” he said quietly.  “I cannot speak of this further.  Go now.  We will converse later.”
	Later.  After Siri had traveled even further away, after it would be much more difficult to bring her back without looking foolish.  Yet Vivenna rose.  She was obedient; it was the way she had been trained.  That was one of the things that had always separated her from her sister.
	She left her father’s study, closing the door behind her, then walked through the wooden palace hallways, pretending that she didn’t see the stares or hear the whispers.  She made her way to her room--which was small and unadorned--and sat down on her bed, hands in her lap.  
	She didn’t agree at all with her father’s assessment.  She could have done something.  She was to have been the God King’s bride.  That would have given her influence in the court.  Everyone knew that the God King himself was distant when it came to the politics of his nation, but surely his wife could have played a role in defending the interests of her people.
	And her father had thrown that away?  
	He really must believe that there is nothing that can be done to stop the invasion.  That turned sending Siri into simply another political maneuver to buy time.  Just like Idris had been doing for decades.  Either way, if the sacrifice of a royal daughter to the Hallandren was that important, then it still should have been Vivenna’s place to go.  It had always been her duty to prepare for marriage to the God King.  Not Siri’s, not Fafen’s.  Vivenna’s. 
	In being saved, she didn’t feel grateful.  Nor did she feel that she would better serve Idris by staying in Bevalis.  If her father died, Yarda would be far better suited to rule during wartime than Vivenna.  Besides, Ridger--Vivenna’s younger brother--had been groomed as heir for years.
	She had been preserved for no reason.  It seemed a punishment, in some ways.  She’d listened, prepared, learned, and practiced.  Everyone said that she was perfect.  Why, then, wasn’t she good enough to serve as intended?
	She had no good answer for herself.  She could only sit and fret, hands in her lap, and face the awful truth.  Her purpose in life had been stolen and given to another.  She was redundant now.  Useless.  
	Unimportant.
#
	“What was he thinking!” Siri snapped, hanging half out the window of her carriage as it bounced along the earthen road.  A young soldier marched beside the vehicle, looking uncomfortable in the afternoon light. 
	“I mean really,” Siri said.  “Sending me to marry the Hallandren king.  That’s silly, isn’t it?  Surely you’ve heard about the kinds of things I do.  Wandering off when nobody’s looking.  Ignoring my lessons.  I throw angry fits, for Color’s sake!!”
	The guard glanced at her out of the corner of his eye, but otherwise gave no reaction.  Siri didn’t really care.  She wasn’t yelling at him so much as just yelling.  She hung precariously from the window, feeling the wind play with her hair--long, red, straight--and stoking her anger.  Fury kept her from weeping.  
	The green spring hills of the Idris Highlands had slowly faded away as the days had passed.  In fact, they were probably in Hallandren already--the border between the two kingdoms was vague, which wasn’t surprising, considering that they’d been one nation up until the Manywar.
	She eyed the poor guard--whose only way of dealing with a raving princess was ignoring her.  Then she finally slumped back into the carriage.  She shouldn’t have treated him so, but, well, she’d just been sold off like some hunk of mutton--doomed by a document that had been written years before she’d even been born.  If anyone had a right to a tantrum, it was Siri.  
	Maybe that’s the reason for all of this, she thought, crossing her arms on the windowsill.  Maybe father was tired of my tantrums, and just wanted to get rid of me.
	That seemed a little far-fetched.  There were easier ways to deal with Siri--ways that didn’t include sending her to represent Idris in a foreign court.  Why, then?  Did he really think she’d do a good job?  That gave her pause.  Then she considered how ridiculous it was.  Her father wouldn’t have assumed that she’d do a better job than Vivenna.  Nobody did anything better than Vivenna.
	Siri sighed, feeling her hair turn a pensive brown.  At least the landscape was interesting, and in order to keep herself from feeling any more frustrated, she let it distract her for the moment.  Hallandren was in the lowlands, a place of tropical forests and strange, colorful animals.  Siri had heard the descriptions from ramblemen, and even confirmed their accounts in the occasional book she’d been forced to read.  She’d thought she knew what to expect.  Yet as the hills gave way to deep grasslands and then the trees finally began to crowd the road, Siri began to realize that there was something no tome or tale could adequately describe.
	Colors.
	In the highlands, flower patches were rare and unconnected, as if they understood how poorly they fit with Idris philosophy.  Here, they appeared to be everywhere.  Tiny flowers grew in great blanketing swaths on the ground.  Large, drooping pink blossoms hung from trees, like bundles of grapes, flowers growing practically on top of one another in a large cluster.  Even the weeds had flowers.  Siri would have picked some of them, if not for the way that the soldiers regarded them with hostility.  
	If I feel this anxious, she realized, those guards must feel more so.  She wasn’t the only one who had been sent away from family and friends.  When would these men be allowed to return?  Suddenly, she felt even more guilty for subjecting the young soldier to her outburst. 
	I’ll send them back when I arrive, she thought.  Then she immediately felt her hair grow white.  Sending the men back would leave her alone in a city filled with Lifeless, Awakeners, and pagans.  
	Yet what good would twenty soldiers do her?  Better that someone, at least, be allowed to return home.
#
	“One would think that you would be happy,” Fafen said.  “After all, you no longer have to marry a tyrant.”
	Vivenna plopped a bruise-colored berry into her basket, then moved on to a different bush.  Fafen worked on one nearby.  She wore the white robes of a monk, her hair completely shorn.  Fafen was the middle sister in almost every way--midway between Siri and Vivenna in height, less proper than Vivenna, yet hardly as careless as Siri.  Fafen was a bit curvier than either of them, which had caught the eyes of several young men in the village.  However, the fact that they would have to become monks themselves if they wanted to marry her kept them in check.  If Fafen noticed how popular she was, she’d never shown it.  She’d made the decision to become a monk before her tenth birthday, and her father had wholeheartedly approved.  Every noble or rich family was traditionally obligated to provide one person to the monasteries.  It was against the Five Visions to be selfish, even with one’s own blood.  
	The two sisters gathered berries which Fafen would later distribute to those in need.  The monk’s fingers were dyed slightly purple by the work.  Vivenna wore gloves.  That much color on her hands would be unseemly.
	“Yes,” Fafen said, “I do think you’re taking this all wrong.  Why, you act as if you want to go down and be married to that Lifeless monster.”
	“He’s not Lifeless,” Vivenna said.  “Susebron is Returned, and there is a large difference.”
	“Yes, but he’s a false god.  Besides, everyone knows what a terrible creature he is.”
	“But it was my place to go and marry him.  That is who I am, Fafen.  Without it, I am nothing.”
	“Nonsense,” Fafen said.  “You’ll inherit now, instead of Ridger.”
	Thereby unsettling the order of things even further, Vivenna thought.  What right do I have to take his place from him? 
	She allowed this aspect of the conversation to lapse, however.  She’d been arguing the point for several minutes now, and it wouldn’t be proper to continue.  Proper.  Rarely before had Vivenna felt so frustrated at having to be proper.  Her emotions were growing rather. . .inconvenient.
	“What of Siri?” she found herself saying.  “You’re happy that this happened to her?”
	Fafen looked up, then frowned a little to herself.  She had a tendency to avoid thinking things through unless she was confronted with them directly.  Vivenna felt a little ashamed for making such a blunt comment, but with Fafen, there often wasn’t any other way.   
	“You do have a point,” Fafen said.  “I don’t see why anyone had to be sent.”
	“The treaty,” Vivenna said.  “It protects our people.”
	“Austre protects our people,” Fafen said, moving on to another bush.  
	Will he protect Siri? Vivenna though.  Poor, innocent, capricious Siri.  She’d never learned to control herself; she’d be eaten alive in the Hallandren Court of Gods.  Siri wouldn’t understand the politics, the backstabbing, the false faces and lies.  She would also be forced to bear the next God King of Hallandren.  Performing that duty was not something Vivenna had looked forward to.  It would have been a sacrifice, yet it would have been her sacrifice, given willingly for the safety of her people. 
	Such thoughts continued to pester Vivenna as she and Fafen finished with the berry picking, then moved down the hillside back toward the village.  Fafen, like all monks, dedicated all of her work to the good of the people.  She watched flocks, harvested food, and cleaned houses for those who could not do it themselves.
	Without a duty of her own, Vivenna had little purpose.  And yet, as she considered it, there was someone who still needed her.  Someone who had left a week before, teary-eyed and frightened, looking to her big sister with desperation.  
	Vivenna wasn’t needed in Idris, whatever her father said.  She was useless here.  But she did know the people, cultures, and society of Hallandren.  And--as she followed Fafen onto the village road--an idea began to form in Vivenna’s head.
	One that was not, by any stretch of the imagination, proper.
 


Chapter Three


	Lightsong didn’t remember dying.
	His priests, however, assured him that his death had been extremely inspiring.  Noble.  Grand.  Heroic.  One did not Return unless one died in a way that exemplified the great virtues of human existence.  That was why the Iridescent Tones sent the Returned back; they acted as examples, and gods, to the people who still lived.
	Each god represented something.  An ideal related to the heroic way in which they had died.   Lightsong himself had died displaying extreme bravery.  Or, at least, that was what his priests told him.  Lightsong couldn’t remember the event, just as he couldn’t remember anything of his life before he became a god.
	He groaned softly, unable to sleep any longer.  He rolled over, feeling weak as he sat up in his majestic bed.  Visions and memories pestered his mind, and he shook his head, trying to clear away the fog of sleep. 
	Servants entered, responding wordlessly to their god’s needs.  He was one of the younger divinities, for he’d Returned only five years before.  There were some two dozen deities in the Court of Gods, and many were far more important--and far more politically savvy--than Lightsong.  And above them all reigned Susebron, the God King of Hallandren.  
	Young though he was, he merited an enormous palace.  He slept in a room draped with silks, dyed with bright reds and yellows.  His palace held dozens of different chambers, all decorated and furnished according to his whims.  Hundreds of servants and priests saw to his needs--whether he wanted them seen to or not.
	All of this, he thought as he stood, because I couldn’t figure out how to die.  Standing made him just a bit dizzy.  It was his feastday.  He would lack strength until he ate.
	Servants approached carrying brilliant red and gold robes.  As they entered his aura, each servant--skin, hair, clothing, and garments--burst with exaggerated color.  The saturated hues were far more resplendent than any dye or paint could produce.  That was an effect of Lightsong’s innate BioChroma: he had enough Breath to fill thousands of people.  He saw little value in it.  He couldn’t use it animate objects or corpses; he was a god, not an Awakener.  He couldn’t give--or even loan--his deific Breath away. 
	Well, except once.  That would, however, kill him.
	The servants continued their ministrations, draping him with gorgeous cloth.  Lightsong was a good head and a half taller than anyone else in the room.  He was also broad of shoulders, with a muscular physique that he didn’t deserve, considering the amount of time he spent idle.  
	“Did you sleep well, your grace?” a voice asked.  
	Lightsong turned.  Llarimar, his high priest, was a tall, portly man with spectacles and a calm demeanor.  His hands were nearly hidden by the deep sleeves of his gold and red robe, and he carried a thick tome.  Both robes and tome burst with color as they entered Lightsong’s aura.  
	“I slept fantastically, Scoot,” Lightsong said, yawning.  “A night full of nightmares and obscure dreams, as always.  Terribly restful.”
	The priest raised an eyebrow.  “Scoot?”
	“Yes,” Lightsong said.  “I’ve decided to give you a new nickname.  Scoot.  Seems to fit you, the way you’re always scooting around, poking into things.”
	“I am honored, your grace,” Llarimar said, seating himself on a chair.
	Colors, Lightsong thought.  Doesn’t he ever get annoyed? 
	Llarimar opened his tome.  “Shall we begin?”
	“If we must,” Lightsong said.  The servants finished tying ribbons, doing up clasps, and draping silks.  Each bowed and retreated to the sides of the room.
	Llarimar picked up his quill.  “What, then, do you remember of your dreams?”
	“Oh, you know,”  Lightsong flopped back onto one of his couches, lounging.  “Nothing really important.”
	Llarimar pursed his lips in displeasure.  Other servants began to file in, bearing various dishes of food.  Mundane, human food.  As a Returned, Lightsong didn’t really need to eat such things--they would not give him strength or banish his fatigue.  They were just an indulgence.  In a short time, he would dine on something far more. . .divine.  It would give him strength enough to live for another week.
	“Please try to remember the dreams, your grace,” Llarimar said in his polite, yet firm, way.  “No matter how unremarkable they may seem.”
	Lightsong sighed, looking up at the ceiling.  It was painted with a mural, of course.  This one depicted three fields enclosed by stone pastures.  It was a vision one of his predecessors had seen, or so he was told.  Lightsong closed his eyes, trying to focus.  “I. . .was walking along a beach,” he said.  “And a ship was leaving without me.  I don’t know where it was going.”
	Llarimar’s pen began to scratch quickly.  He was probably finding all kinds of symbolism in the memory.  “Were there any colors?” the priest asked.
	“The ship had a red sail,” Lightsong said.  “The sand was brown, of course, and the trees green.  For some reason, I think the ocean water was red, like the ship.”
	Llarimar scribbled furiously--he always got excited when Lightsong remembered colors.  Lightsong opened his eyes and stared up at the ceiling and its brightly colored fields.  He reached over idly, plucking some cherries off a servant’s plate. 
	Why should he begrudge the people his dreams?  Even if he found divination foolish, he had no right to complain.  He was remarkably fortunate.  He had a deific BioChromatic aura, a physique that any man would envy, and enough luxury for ten kings.  Of all the people in the world, he had the least right to be difficult.
	It was just that. . .well, he was probably the world’s only god who didn’t believe in his own religion.
	“Was there anything else to the dream, your grace?” Llarimar asked, looking up from his book.
	“You were there, Scoot.”
	Llarimar paused, paling just slightly.  “I. . .was?”
	Lightsong nodded.  “You apologized for bothering me all the time and keeping me from my debauchery.  Then you brought me a big bottle of wine and did a dance.  It was really quite remarkable.”
	Llarimar regarded him with a flat stare.
	Lightsong sighed.  “No, there was nothing else.  Just the boat.  Even that is fading.” 
	Llarimar nodded, rising and shooing back the servants--though, of course, they remained in the room, hovering with their plates of nuts, wine, and fruit, should any of it be wanted.  “Shall we get on with it then, your grace?”  Llarimar asked.
	Lightsong sighed, then rose, exhausted.  A servant scuttled forward to redo one of the clasps on his robe, which had come undone as he sat.
	Lightsong fell into step beside Llarimar, towering at least a foot over the priest.  The furniture and doorways, however, were built to fit Lightsong’s increased size, so it was the servants and priests who seemed out of place.  They passed from room to room, using no hallways.  Hallways were for servants, and they ran in a square around the outside of the building.  Lightsong walked on plush rugs from the northern nations, passing the finest pottery from across the inner sea.  Each room was hung with paintings and gracefully calligraphed poems, created by Hallandren’s finest artists.  
	At the center of the palace was a small, square room that deviated from the standard reds and golds of Lightsong’s motif.  This one was bright with ribbons of darker colors--deep blues, greens, and blood reds.  Each was a true color, directly on hue, as only a person who had attained the Third Heightening could distinguish.
	As Lightsong stepped into the room, the colors blazed to life.  They became brighter, more intense, yet somehow remained dark.  The maroon became a more true maroon, the navy a more powerful navy.  Dark yet bright, a contrast only Breath could inspire.
	In the center of the room was a child.  
	Why does it always have to be a child? Lightsong thought.  
	Llarimar and the servants waited.  Lightsong stepped forward, and the little girl glanced to the side, where a couple of priests stood in red and gold robes.  They nodded encouragingly.  The girl looked back toward Lightsong, obviously nervous.
	“Here now,” Lightsong said, trying to sound encouraging.  “There’s nothing to fear.”
	And yet, the girl trembled.  
	Lecture after lecture--delivered by Llarimar, who had claimed that they were not lectures, for one did not lecture gods--drifted through Lightsong’s head.  There was nothing to fear from the Returned Gods of the Hallandren.  The gods were a blessing.  They provided visions of the future, as well as leadership and wisdom.  All they needed to subsist was one thing.
	Breath.
	Lightsong hesitated, but his weakness was coming to a head.  He felt dizzy.  Cursing himself quietly, he knelt down on one knee, taking the girl’s face in his oversized hands.  She began to cry, but she said the words, clear and distinct as she had been taught.  “My life to yours.  My Breath become yours.”
	Her Breath flowed out, puffing in the air.  It traveled along Lightsong’s arm--the touch was necessary--and he drew it in.  His weakness vanished, the dizziness evaporated.  Both were replaced with crisp clarity.  He felt invigorated, revitalized, alive.
	The girl grew dull.  The color of her lips and eyes faded slightly.  Her brown hair lost some of its luster; her cheeks became more bland.
	It’s nothing, he thought.  Most people say they can’t even tell that their Breath is gone.  She’ll live a full life.  Happy.  Her family will be well paid for her sacrifice.
	And Lightsong would live for another week.  His aura didn’t grow stronger from Breath upon which he fed; that was another difference between a Returned and an Awakener.  The latter were sometimes regarded as inferior, man-made approximations of the Returned.  
	Without a new Breath each week, Lightsong would die.  Many Returned outside of Hallandren lived only eight days.  Yet with a donated Breath a week, a Returned could continue to live, never aging, seeing visions at night which would supposedly provide divinations of the future.  Hence the Court of the Gods, filled with its palaces, where gods could be nurtured, protected, and--most importantly--fed.
	Priests hustled forward to lead the girl out of the room.  It is nothing to her, Lightsong told himself again.  Nothing at all. . . .	
	Her eyes met his as she left, and he could see that the twinkle was gone from them.  She had become a Drab.  A Dull, or a Faded One.  A person without Breath.  It would never grow back.  The priests took her away.  
	Lightsong turned to Llarimar, feeling guilty at his sudden energy.  “All right,” he said.  “Let’s see the Offerings.”
	Llarimar raised an eyebrow over his bespectacled eyes.  “You’re accommodating all of a sudden.”
	I need to give something back, Lightsong thought.  Even if it’s something useless.
	They passed through several more rooms of red and gold, most of which were perfectly square with doors on all four sides.  Near the eastern side of the palace, they entered a long, thin room.  It was completely white, something very unusual in Hallandren.  The walls were lined with paintings and poems.  The servants stayed outside; only Llarimar joined Lightsong as he stepped up to the first painting. 
	“Well?” Llarimar asked.
	It was a pastoral painting of the jungle, with drooping palms and colorful flowers.  There were some of these plants in the gardens around the Court of Gods, which was why Lightsong recognized them.  He’d never actually been to the jungle--at least, not during this incarnation of his life. 
	“The painting is all right,” Lightsong said.  “Not my favorite.  Makes me think of the outside.  I wish I could visit.”
	Llarimar looked at him quizzically.   
	“What?” Lightsong said.  “The Court gets old sometimes.”
	“There isn’t much wine in the forest, your grace.”
	“I could make some.  Ferment. . .something.”
	“I’m sure,” Llarimar said, nodding to one of his aides outside the room.  The lesser priest scribbled down what Lightsong had said about the painting.  Somewhere, there was a city patron who sought a blessing from Lightsong.  It probably had to do with bravery--perhaps the patron was planning to propose marriage, or maybe he was a merchant about to sign a risky business deal.  The priests would interpret Lightsong’s opinion of the painting, then give the person an augury--either for good or for ill--along with the exact words Lightsong had said.  Either way, the act of sending a painting to the god would gain the patron some measure of good fortune.
	Supposedly.
	Lightsong moved away from the painting.  A lesser priest rushed forward, removing it.  Most likely, the patron hadn’t painted it himself, but had instead commissioned it.  The better a painting was, the better a reaction it tended to get from the gods.  One’s future, it seemed, could be influenced by how much one could pay one’s artist.
	I shouldn’t be so cynical, Lightsong thought.  Without this system, I’d have died five years ago.
	Five years ago he had died, even if he still didn’t know what had killed him.  Had it really been a heroic death?  Perhaps the reason nobody was allowed to talk about his former life was because they didn’t want anyone to know that Lightsong the Brave had actually died from a stomach cramp.
	To the side, the lesser priest disappeared with the jungle painting.  It would be burned.  Such offerings were made specifically for the intended god, and only he--besides a few of his priests--was allowed to see them.  Lightsong moved along to the next work of art on the wall.  It was actually a poem, written in the artisan’s script.  The dots of color brightened as Lightsong approached.  The Hallandren artisan’s script was a specialized system of writing that wasn’t based on form, but on color.  Each colored dot represented a different sound in Hallandren’s language.  Combined with some double dots--one of each color--it created an alphabet which was a nightmare for the colorblind.  
	Few people in Hallandren would admit to having that particular ailment.  At least, that was what Lightsong had heard.  He wondered if the priests knew just how much their Gods gossiped about the outside world.
	The poem wasn’t a very good one, obviously composed by a peasant who had then paid someone else to translate it to the artisan’s script.  The simple dots were a sign of this.  True poets used more elaborate symbols, continuous lines that changed color or colorful glyphs that formed pictures.  A lot could be done with symbols that could change shape without losing their meaning.
	Getting the colors right was a delicate art, one that required the Third Heightening or better to perfect.  That was the level of Breath at which a person gained the ability to sense perfect hues of color, just as the Second Heightening gave someone perfect pitch.  Returned were of the Eighth Heightening.  Lightsong didn’t know what it was like to live without the ability to instantly recognize exact shades of color and sound.  He could tell an ideal red from one that had been mixed with even one drop of white paint.
	He gave the peasant’s poem as good a review as he could, though he generally felt an impulse to be honest when he looked at Offerings.  It seemed his duty, and for some reason it was one of the few things he took seriously.  
	They continued down the line, Lightsong giving reviews of the various paintings and poems.  The wall was remarkably full this day.  Was there a feast or celebration he hadn’t heard about?  By the time they neared the end of the line, Lightsong was tired of looking at art, though his body--fueled by the child’s Breath--continued to feel strong and exhilarated.  
	He stopped before the final painting.  It was an abstract work, a style that was growing more and more popular lately--particularly in paintings sent to him, since he’d given favorable reviews to others in the past.  He almost gave this one a poor grade simply because of that.  It was good to keep the priests guessing at what would please him, or so some of the gods said.  Lightsong sensed that many of them were far more calculating in the way that they gave their reviews, intentionally adding cryptic meanings.
	Lightsong didn’t have the patience for such tricks, especially since all anyone ever really seemed to want from him was honesty.  He gave this last painting the time it deserved.  The canvas was thick with paint, every inch colored with large, fat strokes of the brush.  The predominant hue was a deep red, almost a crimson, that Lightsong immediately knew was a red-blue mixture with a hint of black in it.  
	The lines of color overlapped, one atop another, almost in a progression.  Kind of like. . .waves.  Lightsong frowned.  If he looked at it right, it looked like a sea.  And, could that be a ship in the center? 
	Vague impressions from his dream returned to him.  A red sea.  The ship, leaving.
	I’m imagining things, he told himself.  “Good color,” he said.  “Nice patterns.  It puts me at peace, yet has a tension to it as well.  I approve.”
	Llarimar seemed to like this response.  He nodded as the lesser priest--who stood a distance away--recorded Lightsong’s words.
	“So,” Lightsong said.  “That’s it, I assume?”
	“Yes, your grace.”
	One duty left, he thought.  Now that Offerings were done, it would be time to move on to the final--and least appealing--of his daily tasks.  Petitions.  He had to get through them before he could get to more important activities, like taking a nap.
	Llarimar didn’t lead the way toward the petition hall, however.  He simply waved a lesser priest over, then began to flip through some pages on a clipboard.
	“Well?” Lightsong asked.
	“Well what, your grace?”
	“Petitions.”
	Llarimar shook his head.  “You aren’t hearing Petitions today, your grace.  Remember?”
	“No.  I have you to remember things like that for me.”
	“Well, then,” Llarimar said, flipping a page over, “consider it officially remembered that you have no Petitions today.  Your priests will be otherwise employed.”
	“They will?” Lightsong demanded.  “Doing what?”
	“Kneeling reverently in the courtyard, your grace.  Our new queen arrives today.”
	Lightsong froze.  I really need to pay more attention to politics.  “Today?” 
	“Indeed, your grace.  Our lord the God King will be married.”
	“So soon?”
	“As soon as she arrives, your grace.”
	Interesting, Lightsong thought.  Susebron getting a wife.  The God King was the only one of the Returned who could marry.  Returned couldn’t produce children--save, of course, for the king, who had never drawn a breath as a living man.  Lightsong had always found the distinction odd.  
	“Your grace,” Llarimar said.  “We will need a Lifeless Command in order to arrange our troops on the field outside the city to welcome the queen.”
	Lightsong raised an eyebrow.  “We plan to attack her?”
	Llarimar gave him a stern look.  
	Lightsong chuckled.  “Fledgling fruit,” he said, giving up one of the Command phrases that would let others control the city’s Lifeless.  It wasn’t the core Command, of course.  The phrase he’d given to Llarimar would only allow a person to control the Lifeless in non-combat situations, and it would expire one day after its first use.  Lightsong often thought that the convoluted system of Commands used to control the Lifeless was needlessly complex.  However, being one of the four Gods to hold Lifeless Commands did make him rather important at times.
	The priests began to chat quietly about preparations and the new queen.  Lightsong waited, still thinking about Susebron and the impending wedding.  He folded his arms and rested against the side of the doorway.  
	“Scoot?” he asked.
	“Yes, your grace?”
	“Did I have a wife?  Before I died, I mean.”
	Llarimar hesitated.  “You know I cannot speak of your life before your Return, Lightsong.  Knowledge of your past won’t do anyone any good.”
	Lightsong leaned his head back, resting it against the wall, looking up at the white ceiling.  “I. . .remember a face, sometimes,” he said softly.  “A beautiful, youthful face.  I think it might have been her.”
	The priests hushed.  
	“Inviting brown hair,” Lightsong said.  “Red lips, three shades shy of pure, but with a deep beauty of their own.  Dark tan skin.”
	A priest scuttled forward with the red tome, and Llarimar started writing furiously.  He didn’t prompt Lightsong for more information, but simply took down the god’s words as they came.
	Lightsong fell silent, turning away from the men and their scribbling pens.  What does it matter? he thought.  That life is gone.  Instead, I get to be a god.  Regardless of my belief in the religion itself, the perks are nice.
	He walked away, leaving Llarimar, though he was trailed by a retinue of servants and lesser priests who would see to his needs.  Offerings done, dreams recorded, and petitions canceled, Lightsong was free to pursue his own activities. 
	He didn’t return to his main chambers.  Instead, he made his way out onto his patio deck and waved for a pavilion to be set up for him. 
	If a new queen was going to arrive today, he wanted to get a good look at her.    

Chapter Four


	Siri’s carriage rolled to a stop outside of T’Telir, capital of Hallandren.  She stared out the window and realized something very, very intimidating: her people had no idea what it meant to be ostentatious.  Flowers weren’t ostentatious.  Ten soldiers protecting a carriage was not ostentatious.  Throwing a tantrum in public wasn’t ostentatious.
	The field of forty thousand soldiers, dressed in brilliant blue and gold, standing in perfect rows, spears raised high with blue tassels flapping in the wind. . .that was ostentatious.  The twin line of cavalrymen atop enormous, thick-hoofed horses, both men and beasts draped with golden cloth that shimmered in the sun.  That was ostentatious.  The massive city, so large it made her mind numb to consider it, domes and spires and painted walls all competing to draw her attention.  That was ostentatious.
	She’d thought that she was prepared.  The carriage had passed through cities as they’d made their way to T’Telir.  She’d seen the painted houses, the bright colors and patterns.  She’d stayed at inns with plush beds.  She’d eaten foods mixed with spices that made her sneeze.  
	She hadn’t been prepared for her reception at T’Telir.  Not at all.  
	Blessed Lord of Colors. . . . she thought.  
	Her soldiers pulled in tight around the carriage, as if wishing they could climb inside and hide from the overwhelming sight.  T’Telir was built up against the shore of the Bright Sea, a large but landlocked body of water.  She could see it in the distance, reflecting the sunlight, strikingly true to its name.  
	A figure in blue and silver rode up to her carriage.  His deep robes weren’t simple, like the monks wore back in Idris.  These had massive, peaked shoulders that almost made the costume look like armor.  He wore a matching headdress.  That, combined with the brilliant colors and complex layers of the robes, made Siri’s hair pale to an intimidated white.
	The figure bowed.  “Lady Sisirinah Royal,” the man said in a deep voice, “I am Treledees, high priest of his Immortal Majesty, Susebron the Grand, Returned God and King of Hallandren.  You will accept this token honor guard to guide you to the Court of Gods.”
	Token? Siri thought.  
	The priest was didn’t wait for a response, he just turned his horse and started back down the highway toward the city.  Her carriage rolled after him, her soldiers marching uncomfortably around the vehicle.  The jungle gave way to sporadic bunches of palm trees, and Siri was surprised to see how much sand was mixed with the soil.  Her view of the landscape soon grew obstructed by the vast field of soldiers who stood at attention on either side of the road.  
	“Austre, God of Colors!” one of Siri’s guards whispered.  “They’re Lifeless!”
	Siri’s hair--which had begun to drift to auburn--snapped back to fearful white.  He was right.  Under their colorful uniforms, the Hallandren troops were a dull grey.  Their eyes, their skin, even their hair: all had been drained completely of color, leaving behind a monochrome.
	Those can’t be Lifeless! she thought.  They look like men!
	She’d imagined Lifeless as skeletal creatures, the flesh rotting and falling from the bones.  They were, after all, men who had died, then been brought back to life as mindless soldiers.  But these that she passed looked so human.  There was nothing to distinguish them save for their lack of color and the stiff expressions on their faces.  That, and the fact that they stood unnaturally motionless.  No shuffling, no breathing, no quivers of muscle or limb.  Even their eyes were still.  They seemed like statues, particularly considering their grey skin.
	And. . .I’m going to marry one of these things? Siri thought.  But no, Returned were different from Lifeless, and both were different from Drabs, which were people who had lost their Breath.  She could vaguely remember a time when someone back in her village had Returned.  It had been nearly ten years back, and her father hadn’t let her visit the man.  She did recall that he’d been able to speak and interact with his family, even if he hadn’t been able to remember them.
	He’d died again a week later.  
	Eventually, her carriage passed through the ranks of Lifeless.  The city walls were next; they were immense and daunting, yet they almost looked more artistic than functional.  The wall’s top was curved in massive half-circles, like rolling hills, and the rim was plated with a golden metal.  The gates themselves were in the form of two twisting, lithe sea creatures who curved up in a massive archway.  Siri passed through them, and the guard of Hallandren cavalrymen--who appeared to be living men--accompanied her.
	She had always thought of Hallandren as a place of death.  Her impressions were based on stories told by passing ramblemen or by old women at the winter hearth.  They spoke of city walls built from skulls, then painted with sloppy, ugly streaks of color.  She’d imagined the buildings inside splattered with different clashing hues.  Obscene.
	She’d been wrong.  True, there was an arrogance to T’Telir.  Each new wonder seemed as if it wanted to grab her attention and shake her about by her eyes.  People lined the street--more people than Siri had seen in her entire life--crowding together to watch her carriage.  If there were poor among them, Siri couldn’t tell, for they all wore brightly colored clothing.  Some did have more exaggerated outfits--probably merchants, since Hallandren was said to have no nobility beyond its Gods--but even the simplest of clothing had a cheerful brightness to it.  
	Many of the painted buildings did clash, but none of it was sloppy.  There was a sense of craftsmanship and art to everything from the storefronts, to the people, to the statues of mighty soldiers that frequently stood on comers.  It was terribly overwhelming.  Garish.  A vibrant, enthusiastic garishness.  Siri found herself smiling--her hair turning a tentative blonde--though she felt a headache coming on. 
	Maybe. . .maybe this is why Father sent me, Siri thought.  Training or no training, Vivenna would never have fit in here.  But I’ve always been far too interested in color.
	Her father was a good king with good instincts.  What if--after twenty years of raising and training Vivenna--he had come to the conclusion that she wasn’t the right one to help Idris?  Was that why, for the first time in their lives, Father had chosen Siri over Vivenna? 
	But, if that’s true, what am I supposed to do?  She knew that her people feared Hallandren would invade Idris, but she couldn’t see her father sending one of his daughters if he believed war were close.  Perhaps he hoped that she’d be able to help ease the tensions between the kingdoms?
	That possibility only added to her anxiety.  Duty was something unfamiliar to her, and not a little unsettling.  Her father trusted her with the very fate and lives of their people.  She couldn’t run, escape, or hide.  
	Particularly from her own wedding.   
	As her hair twinged white with fear at what was coming, she diverted her attention to the city again.  It wasn’t hard to let it take her attention.  It was enormous, sprawling like a tired beast curled around and over hills.  As the carriage climbed the southern section of town, she could see--through gaps in the buildings--that the Bright Sea broke into a bay before the city.  T’Telir curved around the bay, running right up to the water, forming a crescent shape.  The city wall, then, only had to run in a half-circle, abutting the sea, keeping the city boxed in.
	It didn’t seem cramped.  There was a lot of open space in the city--malls and gardens, large swaths of unused land.  Palms lined many of the streets and other foliage was common.  Plus, with the cool breeze coming over the sea, the air was a lot more temperate than she had expected.  The road led up to a sea-side overlook within the city, a small plateau that had an excellent view.  Except, the entire plateau was surrounded by a large, obstructive wall.  Siri watched with growing apprehension as the gates to this smaller, city-within-a-city opened up to let the carriage, soldiers, and priests enter.  
	The common people stayed outside.
	There was another wall inside, a barrier to keep anyone from seeing in through the gate.  The procession turned left and rounded the blinding wall, entering the Hallandren Court of Gods: an enclosed, lawn-covered courtyard.  Several dozen enormous mansions dominated the enclosure, each one painted a distinct color.  At the far end of the court was a massive black structure, much taller than the other building. 
	The walled courtyard was quiet and still.  Siri could see figures sitting on balconies, watching her carriage roll across the grass.  In front of each of the palaces, a crew of men and women knelt prostrate on the grass.  The color of their clothing matched that of their building, but Siri spared little time to study them.  Instead, she nervously peered at the large, black structure.  It was pyramidal, formed of giant step-like blocks.   
	Black, she thought.  In a city of color.  Her hair paled even further.  She suddenly wished she was more devout.  She doubted Austre was all that pleased with her outbursts, and most days she even had trouble naming the Five Visions.  But he’d watch over her for the sake of her people, wouldn’t he?
	The procession pulled to a stop at the base of the enormous triangular building.  Siri looked up through the carriage window at the shelves and knobs at the summit, which made the architecture seem top-heavy.  She felt as if the dark blocks would come tumbling down in an avalanche to bury her.  The priest rode his horse back up to Siri’s window.  The cavalrymen waited quietly, the shuffling of their beasts the only sound in the massive, open courtyard.  
	“We have arrived, Vessel,” the man said.  “As soon as we enter the building, you will be prepared and taken to your husband.”
	“Husband?” Siri asked uncomfortably.  “Won’t there be a wedding ceremony?”
	The priest smirked.  “The God King does not need ceremonial justification.  You became his wife the moment he desired it.”
	Siri shivered.  “I was just hoping that maybe I could see him, before, you know. . . .”
	The priest shot her a harsh look.  “The God King does not perform for your whims, woman.  You are blessed above all others, for you will be allowed to touch him--if only at his discretion.  Do not pretend that you are anything other than you are.  You have come because he desires it, and you will obey.  Otherwise, you will be put aside and another will chosen in your place--which, I think, might bode unfavorably for your rebel friends in the highlands.”
	The priest turned his horse, then clopped his way toward a large stone ramp, leading up to the building.  The carriage lurched into motion, and Siri was drawn toward her fate.
 


Chapter Five

	This will complicate things, Vasher thought, standing in the shadows atop the wall that enclosed the Court of the Gods.  
	What’s wrong? Nightblood asked.  So the rebels actually sent a princess.  Doesn’t change your plans.
	Vasher waited, watching, as the new queen’s carriage crept up the incline and disappeared into the palace’s maw.   
	What? Nightblood demanded.  Even after all of these years, the sword reacted like a child in many ways.  
	She’ll be used, Vasher thought.  I doubt we’ll be able to get through this without dealing with her.  He hadn’t believed that the Idrians would actually send royal blood back to T’Telir.  They’d given up a pawn of terrible value.
	Vasher turned away from the Court, wrapping his sandaled foot around one of the banners that ran down the outside of the wall.  Then he released his Breath. 
	“Lower me,” he Commanded.  
	The large tapestry--woven from wool threads--sucked hundreds of Breath from him.  It hadn’t the form of a man, and it was massive in size, but Vasher now had enough Breath to spend in such extravagant Awakenings.
	The tapestry twisted, a thing alive, and formed a hand which picked Vasher up.  As always, the Awakening tried to imitate the form of a human--looking closely at the twistings and undulations of the fabric, Vasher could see outlines of muscles and even veins.  There was no need for them; the Breath animated the fabric, and no muscles were necessary for it to move.  
	The tapestry carefully carried Vasher down, pinching him by one shoulder, placing his feet on the street.  “Your Breath to Mine,” Vasher Commanded.  The large banner-tapestry lost its animate form immediately, life vanishing, and it fluttered back against the wall.  
	Some few people paused in the street, yet they were interested, not awed.  This was T’Telir, home of the gods themselves.  Men with upwards of a thousand Breaths were uncommon, but not unheard of.  The people gawked--as peasants in other kingdoms might pause to watch the carriage of a passing lord--but then they moved on with their daily activities.  
	The attention was unavoidable.  Though Vasher still dressed in his usual outfit--ragged trousers, well-worn cloak despite the heat, a rope wrapped several times around his waist for a belt--he now caused colors to brighten dramatically when he was near.  The change would be noticeable to normal people and blatantly obvious to those of the First Heightening. 
	His days of being able to hide and skulk were gone.  He’d have to grow accustomed to being noticed again.  That was one of the reasons he was glad to be in T’Telir.  The city was large enough and filled with enough oddities--from Lifeless soldiers, to Awakened objects serving everyday functions--that he probably wouldn’t stand out too much.  
	Of course, that didn’t take Nightblood into account.  Vasher moved through the crowds, carrying the overly-heavy sword in one hand, sheathed point nearly dragging on the ground behind him.  Some people shied away from the sword immediately.  Others watched it, eyes lingering far too long.  Perhaps it was time to stuff Nightblood back in the pack.
	Oh, no you don’t, Nightblood said.  Don’t even start thinking about that.  I’ve been locked away for too long.
	What does it matter to you? Vasher thought.
	I need fresh air, Nightblood said.  And sunlight.
	You’re a sword, Vasher thought, not a palm tree.
	Nightblood fell silent.  He was smart enough to realize that he was not a person, but he didn’t like being confronted with that fact.  It tended to put him in a sullen mood.  That suited Vasher just fine.
	He made his way to a restaurant a few streets down from the Court of Gods.  This was one thing he had missed about T’Telir: restaurants.  In most cities, there were few dining options.  If you intended to stay for a while, you hired a local woman to give you meals at her table.  If you stayed a short time, you ate what your innkeeper gave you.
	In T’Telir, however, the population was large enough--and rich enough--to support dedicated food providers.  Restaurants still hadn’t caught on in the rest of the world, but in T’Telir, they were commonplace.  Vasher already had a booth reserved, and the waiter nodded him to the spot.  Vasher settled himself, leaving Nightblood up against the wall. 
	The sword was stolen within a minute of his letting go of it.
	Vasher ignored the thievery, thoughtful as the waiter brought him a warm cup of citrus tea.  Vasher sipped at the sweetened liquid, sucking on the bit of rind, wondering why in the world a people who lived in a tropical lowland preferred heated teas.  After a few minutes, his life sense warned him that he was being watched.  Eventually, that same sense alerted him that someone was approaching.  Vasher slipped his dagger from his belt with his free hand as he sipped.
	The priest sat down opposite Vasher in the booth.  He wore street clothing, rather than religious robes.  However--perhaps unconsciously--he had still chosen to wear the white and green of his deity.  Vasher slipped his dagger back into its sheath, masking the sound by taking a loud sip.
	The priest, Bebid, looked about nervously.  He had enough of a Breath Aura to indicate that he’d reached the First Heightening.  It was where most people--those who could afford to buy Breath--stopped.  That much Breath would extend their lifespan by a good decade or so and give them an increased life sense.  It would also let them see Breath Auras and distinguish other Awakeners, and--in a pinch--let them do a little Awakening themselves.  A decent trade for spending enough money to feed a peasant family for fifty years.
	“Well?” Vasher asked.
	Bebid actually jumped at the sound.  Vasher sighed, closing his eyes.  The priest was not accustomed to these kinds of clandestine meetings.  He wouldn’t have come at all, had Vasher not exerted certain. . .pressures on him.  
	Vasher opened his eyes, staring at the priest as the waiter arrived with two plates of spiced rice.  Tektees food was the restaurant’s specialty--the Hallandren liked foreign spices as much as they liked odd colors.   Vasher had placed the order earlier, along with a payment that would keep the surrounding booths empty.  
	“Well?” Vasher repeated.
	“I. . .” Bebid said.  “I don’t know.  I haven’t been able to find out much.”
	Vasher regarded the man with a stern stare.
	“You have to give me more time.”
	“Remember your intercessions, friend,” Vasher said, drinking the last of his tea, feeling a twinge of annoyance.  “Wouldn’t want news of those getting out, would we?”  Do we have to go through this again?
	Bebid was quiet for a time.  “You don’t know what you’re asking, Vasher,” he said, leaning in.  “I’m a priest of Brightvison the True.  I can’t betray my oaths!”
	“Good thing I’m not asking you to.”  
	“We’re not supposed to release information about Court politics.”
	“Bah,” Vasher snapped.  “Those Returned can’t so much as look at one another without half of the city learning about it within the hour.”
	“Surely you’re not implying--” Bebid said.
	Vasher gritted his teeth, bending his spoon with his finger in annoyance.  “Enough, Bebid!  We both know that your oaths are all just part of the game.”  He leaned in.  “And I really hate games.”
	Bebid paled and didn’t touch his meal.  Vasher eyed his spoon with annoyance, then bent it back, calming himself.  He shoveled in a spoonful of rice, mouth burning from the spices.  He’d didn’t believe in letting food sit around uneaten--you never knew when you’d have to leave in a hurry.
	“There have been. . .rumors,” Bebid finally said.  “This goes beyond simple Court politics, Vasher--beyond games played between gods.  This is something very real, and very quiet.  Quiet enough that even observant priests only hear hints of it.”
	Vasher continued to eat.
	“There is a faction of the Court pushing to attack Idris,” Bebid said.  “Though I can’t fathom why.”
	“Don’t be an idiot,” Vasher said, wishing he had more tea to wash down the rice.  “We both know Hallandren has sound reasons to slaughter every person up in those highlands.”
	“Royals,” Bebid said.
	Vasher nodded.  They were called rebels, but those ‘rebels’ were the true Hallandren royal family.  Mortal men though they might be, their bloodline was a challenge to the Court of Gods.  Any good monarch knew that the first thing you did to stabilize your throne was execute anyone who had a better claim to it than you did.  After that, it was usually a good idea to execute everyone who thought they might have claim. 
	“So,” Vasher said.  “You fight, Hallandren wins.  What’s the problem?”
	“It’s a bad idea, that’s the problem,” Bebid said.  “A terrible idea.  Kalad’s Phantoms, man!  Idris won’t go easily, no matter what people in the court say.  This won’t be like squashing that fool Vahr.  The Idrians have allies from across the mountains and the sympathies of dozens of kingdoms.  What some are calling a ‘simple quelling of rebel factions’ could easily spin into another Manywar.  Do you want that?  Thousands upon thousands dead?  Kingdoms falling to never rise again?  All so we can grab a little bit of frozen land nobody really wants.”
	“The trade passes are valuable,” Vasher noted.
	Bebid snorted.  “The Idrians aren’t foolish enough to raise their tariffs too high.  This isn’t about money.  It’s about fear.  People in the court talk about what might happen if the Idrians cut off the passes or what may happen if the Idrians let enemies slip through and besiege T’Telir.  If this were about money, we’d never go to war.  Hallandren thrives on its dye and textiles trade.  You think that business would boom in war?  We’d be lucky not to suffer a full economic collapse.”
	“And you assume that I care about Hallandren’s economic well being?” Vasher asked.
	“Ah, yes,” Bebid said dryly.  “I forgot who I was talking to.  What do you want, then?  Tell me so we can get this over with.”
	“Tell me about the rebels,” Vasher said, chewing on rice.
	“The Idrians?  We just talked--”
	“Not them,” Vasher said.  “The ones in the city.”
	“They’re unimportant now that Vahr is dead,” the priest said with a wave of his hand.  “Nobody knows who killed him, by the way.  Probably the rebels themselves.  Guess they didn’t appreciate his getting himself captured, eh?”
	Vasher said nothing.
	“Is that all you want?” Bebid said impatiently.  
	“I need to contact the factions you mentioned,” Vasher said.  “The ones who are pushing for war against Idris.”
	“I won’t help you enrage the--”
	“Do not presume to tell me what to do, Bebid.  Just give me the information you promised, and you can be free of all this.”
	“Vasher,” Bebid said, leaning in even further.  “I can’t help.  My lady isn’t interested in these kinds of politics, and I move in the wrong circles.”
	Vasher ate some more, judging the man’s sincerity.  “All right.  Who, then?”
	Bebid relaxed, using his napkin to wipe his brow.  “I don’t know,” he said.  “Maybe one of Mercystar’s priests?  You could also try Bluefingers, I suppose.”
	“Bluefingers?  That’s an odd name for a god.”
	“Bluefingers isn’t a god,” Bebid said, chuckling.  “That’s just a nickname.  He’s the High Place steward, head of the scribes.  He pretty much keeps the Court running; if anyone knows anything about this faction, it will be him.  Of course, he’s so stiff and straight, you’ll have a hard time breaking him.”
	“You’d be surprised,” Vasher said, shoveling the last bit of rice into his mouth.  “I got you, didn’t I?”
	“I suppose.”
	Vasher stood.  “Pay the waiter when you leave,” he said, grabbing his cloak off its peg and wandering out.  He could feel a. . .darkness to his right.  He walked down the street, then turned down an alley, where he found Nightblood--still sheathed--sticking from the chest of the thief who had stolen him.  Another cutpurse lay dead on the alley floor.
	Vasher pulled the sword free, then snapped the sheath closed--it had only been opened a fraction of an inch--and did up the clasp.
	You lost your temper in there for a bit, Nightblood said with a chastising tone.  I thought you were going to work on that.
	Guess I’m relapsing, Vasher thought.
	Nightblood paused.  I don’t think you ever really unlapsed in the first place.   
	That’s not a word, Vasher said, leaving the alley.
	So? Nightblood said.  You’re too worried about words.  That priest--you spent all those words on him, then you just let him go.  It’s not really how I would have handled the situation.
	Yes, I know, Vasher said.  Your way would have involved making several more corpses.
	Well, I am a sword, Nightblood said with a mental huff.  Might as well stick to what you’re good at. . . .
#
	Lightsong sat on his patio, watched his new queen’s carriage pull up to the palace.  “Well, this has been a pleasant day,” he remarked to his high priest.  A few cups of wine--along with some time to get past thinking about children deprived of their Breath--and he was beginning to feel more like his usual self.
	“You’re that happy to have a queen?” Llarimar asked.
	“I’m that happy to have avoided Petitions for the day thanks to her arrival.  What do we know about her?”
	“Not much, your grace,” Llarimar said, standing beside Lightsong’s chair and looking toward the God King’s palace.  “The Idrians surprised us by not sending the eldest daughter as planned.  They sent the youngest in her stead.”
	“Interesting,” Lightsong said, accepting another cup of wine from one of his servants.
	“She’s only seventeen years old,” Llarimar said.  “I can’t imagine being married to the God King at her age.”
	“I can’t imagine you being married to the God King at any age, Scoot,” Lightsong said.  Then he pointedly cringed.  “Actually, yes I can imagine it, and the dress looks painfully indecorous on you.  Make a note to have my imagination flogged for its insolence in showing me that particular sight.”
	“I’ll put it in line right behind your sense of decorum, your grace,” Llarimar said dryly.
	“Don’t be silly,” Lightsong said, taking a sip of wine.  “I haven’t had one of those in years.” 
	He leaned back, trying to decide what the Idrians were signaling by sending the wrong princess.  Two potted palms waved in the wind, and Lightsong was distracted by the scent of salt on the incoming sea breeze.  I wonder if I sailed that sea once, he thought.  A man of the ocean?  Is that how I died?  Is that why I dreamed of a ship?
	He could only vaguely remember that dream now.  A red sea. . . 
	Fire.  Death, killing, and battle.  He was shocked as he suddenly remembered his dream in starker, more vivid stark detail.  The sea had been red as it reflected the magnificent city of T’Telir, engulfed in flames.  He could almost hear people crying out in pain, he could nearly hear. . .what?  Soldiers marching and fighting in the streets?
	Lightsong shook his head, trying to dispel the phantom memories.  The ship he’d seen in his dream had been burning too, he now remembered.  It didn’t have to mean anything; everyone had nightmares.  But it made him uncomfortable to know that his nightmares were seen as prophetic omens. 
	Llarimar was still standing beside Lightsong’s chair, watching the God King’s palace.
	“Oh, sit down and stop looming over me,” Lightsong said.  “You’re making the buzzards jealous.”
	Llarimar raised an eyebrow.  “And which buzzards would that be, your grace?”
	“The ones who keep pushing for us to go to war,” Lightsong waving a hand.  
	The priest sat down on one of the patio’s wooden recliners and relaxed as he sat, removing the bulky mitre from his head.  Underneath, Llarimar’s dark hair was plastered to his head with sweat.  He ran his hand through it.  During the first few years, Llarimar had remained stiff and formal at all the times.  Eventually, however, Lightsong had worn him down.  After all, Lightsong was the god.  In his opinion, if he could lounge on the job, then so could his priests.  
	“I don’t know, your Grace,” Llarimar said slowly, rubbing his chin.  “I don’t like this.”
	“The queen’s arrival?” Lightsong asked. 
	Llarimar nodded.  “We haven’t had a queen in the Court for some thirty years.  I don’t know how the factions will deal with her.”
	Lightsong rubbed his forehead.  “Politics, Llarimar?  You know I frown on such things.”
	Llarimar eyed him.  “Your Grace, you are--by default--a politician.”
	“Don’t remind me, please.  I should very well like to extract myself from the situation.  Do you think, perhaps, I could bribe one of the other gods to take control of my Lifeless commands?”
	“I doubt that would be wise,” Llarimar said.
	“It’s all part of my master plan to ensure that I become totally and redundantly useless to this city by the time I die.  Again.”
	Llarimar cocked his head.  “Redundantly useless?”
	“Of course.  Regular uselessness wouldn’t be enough--I am, after all, a god.”  He took a handful of grapes from a servant’s tray, still trying to dismiss his dream’s disturbing images.  They didn’t mean anything.  Just dreams.
	Even so, he decided he would tell Llarimar about them the next morning.  Perhaps Llarimar could use the dreams to help push for peace with Idris.  If Old Dedelin hadn’t sent his firstborn daughter, it would mean more debates in the court.  More talk of war.  This princess’s arrival should have settled it, but knew that the war-hawks among the gods would not let the issue die.  
	“Still,” Llarimar said, as if talking to himself.  “They did send someone.  That is a good sign, surely.  An outright refusal would have meant war for certain.”
	“And whoever Certain is, I doubt we should have a war for him,” Lightsong said idly, inspecting a grape.  “War is, in my divine opinion, even worse than politics.”
	“Some say the two are the same, your grace.”
	“Nonsense.  War is far worse.  At least where politics is going on, there are usually nice hors d’oeuvres.” 
	As usual, Llarimar ignored Lightsong’s witty remarks.  Lightsong would have been offended if he hadn’t known there were three separate lesser priests standing at the back of the patio, recording his words, searching for wisdom and meaning within them 
	“What will the Idrian rebels do now, do you think?” Llarimar asked.
	“Here’s the thing, Scoot,” Lightsong said, leaning back, closing his eyes and feeling the sun on his face.  “The Idrians don’t consider themselves to be rebels.  They’re not sitting up in their hills, waiting for the day when they can return in triumph to in Hallandren.  This isn’t their home any more.”
	“Those peaks are hardly a kingdom.”
	“They’re enough of a kingdom to control the area’s best mineral deposits, four vital passes to the north, and the original royal line of the original Hallandren dynasty.  They don’t need us, my friend.”
	“And the talk of Idrian dissidents in the city, ones rousing the people against the Court of Gods?”
	“Rumors only,” Lightsong said.  “Though, when I’m proven wrong and the underprivileged masses storm my palace and burn me at the stake, I’ll be sure to inform them that you were right all along.  You’ll get the last laugh.  Or. . .well, the last scream, since you’ll probably be tied up beside me.”
	Llarimar’s sighed, and Lightsong opened his eyes to find the priest regarding him.  The priest didn’t chastise Lightsong for his levity.  Llarimar just reached down, putting his headdress back on.  He was the priest; Lightsong was the God.  There would be no questioning of motives, no rebukes.  If Lightsong gave an order, they would all do exactly as he said.
	Sometimes, that terrified him.
	But not this day.  He was, instead, annoyed.  The queen’s arrival had somehow gotten him talking about politics--and the day had been going so well until then. 
	“More wine,” Lightsong said, raising his cup.
	“You can’t get drunk, your grace,” Llarimar noted.  “Your body is immune to all toxins.”
	“I know,” Lightsong said as a lesser servant filled his cup.  “But trust me--I’m quite good at pretending.”
 

Chapter Six


	Siri stepped from the carriage.  Immediately, dozens of servants in blue and silver swarmed around her, pulling her away.  Siri turned, alarmed, looking back toward her soldiers.  The men stepped forward, but Treledees held up his hand. 
	 “The Vessel will go alone,” the priest declared.
	Siri felt a stab of fear.  This was the time.  “Return to Idris,” she said to the men.
	“But, my lady--” the lead soldier said.
	“No,” Siri said.  “You can do nothing more for me here.  Please, return and tell my father that I arrived safely.”
	The lead soldier glanced back at his men, uncertain.  Siri didn’t get to see if they obeyed or not, for the servants shuffled her around a corner into a long, black hallway.  Siri tried not to show her fear.  She’d come to the palace to be wed, and was determined to make a favorable impression on the God King.  But she really was just terrified.  Why hadn’t she run?  Why hadn’t she wiggled out of this somehow?  Why couldn’t they have all just let her be?  
	There was no escape now.  As the serving women led her down a corridor into the deep black palace, the last remnants of her former life disappeared behind her.  
	She was now alone.
	Lamps with colored glass lined the walls.  Siri was led through several twists and turns in the dark passages.  She tried to remember her way back, but was soon hopelessly lost.  The servants surrounded her like an honor guard; though all were female, they were of different ages.  Each wore a blue cap, hair loose out the back, and they kept their eyes downcast.  Their shimmering blue clothing was loose-fitting, even through the bust.  Siri blushed at the low-cut fronts.  In Idris, women kept even their necks covered.    
	The black corridor eventually opened into a much larger room.  Siri hesitated in the doorway.  While the stone walls of this room were black, they had been draped in silks of a deep maroon.  In fact, everything in the room was maroon, from the carpeting, to the furniture, to the tubs--surrounded by tile--in the center of the room. 
	The servants began to pick at her clothing, undressing her.  Siri jumped, swatting at a few hands, causing them to pause in surprise.  Then they attacked with renewed vigor, and Siri realized that she didn’t have a choice except to grit her teeth and bear the treatment.  She raised her arms, letting the servants pull off her dress and underclothing, and felt her hair grow red as she blushed.  At least the room was warm.  
	She shivered anyway.  She was forced to stand, naked, as other servants approached, bearing measuring tapes.  They poked and prodded, getting various measurements, including ones around Siri’s waist, bust, shoulders, and hips.  When that was finished, the women backed away, and the room fell still.  The bath continued to steam in the center of the chamber.  Several of the serving women gestured toward it.
	Guess I’m allowed to wash myself, Siri thought with relief, walking up the tile steps.  She stepped carefully into the massive tub, and was pleased at how warm the water was.  She lowered herself into the water, letting herself relax just a fraction.
	Soft splashes sounded behind her, and she spun.  Several other serving women--these wearing brown--were climbing into the tub, fully clothed, holding wash cloths and soap.  Siri sighed, yielding herself to their care as they began to scrub vigorously at her body and hair.  She closed her eyes, enduring the treatment with as much dignity as she could manage.
	That left her time to think, which was not good.  It only allowed her to consider just what was happening too her.  Her anxiety immediately returned.
	The Lifeless weren’t as bad as the stories, she thought, trying to reassure herself.  And the city colors are far more pleasant than I expected.  Maybe. . .maybe the God King isn’t as terrible as everyone says.
	“Ah, good,” a voice said.  “We’re right on schedule.  Perfect.”
	Siri froze.  That was a man’s voice.  She snapped her eyes open to find an older man in brown robes standing beside the tub, writing something on a ledger.  He was balding and had a round, pleasant face.  A young boy stood next to him, bearing extra sheets of paper and a small jar of ink for the man to use in dipping his quill.
	Siri screamed, startling several of her servants as she moved with a sudden splashing motion, covering herself with her arms.
	The man with the ledger hesitated, looking down.  “Is something wrong, vessel?”
	“I’m bathing,” she snapped.
	“Yes,” the man said.  “I believe I can tell that.”
	“Well, why are you watching?”
	The man cocked his head.  “But I’m a royal servant, far beneath your station. . . .” he said, then trailed off.  “Ah, yes.  Idris sensibilities.  I had forgotten.  Ladies, please splash around, make some more bubbles in the bath.”
	The serving women did as asked, churning up an abundance of foam in the soapy water.  
	“There,” the man said, turning back to his ledger.  “I can’t see a thing.  Now, let us get on with this.  It would not do to keep the God King waiting on his wedding day!”
	Siri reluctantly allowed the bathing to continue, though she was careful to keep certain bits of anatomy well beneath the water.  The women worked furiously, scrubbing so hard that Siri was half-afraid they’d rub her skin right off. 
	“As you might guess,” the man said, “we’re on a very tight schedule.  There’s much to do, and I would like this all to go as smoothly as possible.”
	Siri frowned.  “And. . .who exactly are you?”
	The man glanced at her, causing her to duck down beneath the suds a little more.  Her hair was as bright a red as it had ever been.  
	“My name is Havarseth, but everyone just calls me Bluefingers.”  He held up a hand and wiggled the fingers, which were all stained dark with blue ink from writing.  “I am head scribe and steward to his Excellent Grace Susebron, God King of Hallandren.  In simpler terms, I manage the palace attendants and oversee all servants in the Court of Gods.” 
	He paused, eying her.  “I also make certain that everyone stays on schedule and does what they are supposed to.”
	Some of the younger girls--wearing brown, like the ones bathing Siri--began bringing pitchers of water to the side of the tub, and the women used these to rinse Siri’s hair.  She turned about to let them, though she tried to keep a waterlogged eye on Bluefingers and his serving boy.
	“Now,” Bluefingers said.  “The palace tailors are working very quickly on your gown.  We had a good estimate of your size, but final measurements were necessary to complete the process.  We should have the garment ready for you in a short time.”
	The serving women dowsed Siri’s head again.
	“There are some things we need to discuss,” Bluefingers continued, voice distorted by the water in Siri’s ears.  “I presume you have been taught the proper method of treating his Immortal Majesty?”
	Siri glanced at him, then looked away.  She probably had been taught, but she didn’t remember--and either way, she wasn’t in a frame of mind to concentrate.
	“Ah,” Bluefingers said, apparently reading her expression.  “Well then, this could be. . .interesting.  Allow me to give you some suggestions.”
	Siri nodded.
	“First, please understand that the God King’s will is law.  He needs no reason or justification for what he does.  Your life, like all of our lives, is in his hands.  Second, please understand that the God King does not speak with people such as you or me.  You will not talk to him when you go to him.  Do you understand?”
	Siri spit out a bit of soapy water.  “You mean I’m not even able to be able to speak to my husband?”
	“I’m afraid not,” Bluefingers said.  “None of us can.”
	“Then how does he make judgments and rulings?” she asked, wiping her eyes.
	“The Council of Gods handles the kingdom’s more mundane needs,” Bluefingers explained.  “The God King is above the day-to-day governance.  When it is necessary for him to communicate, he gives his judgments to his priests, who then reveal them to the world.”
	Great, Siri thought.
	“It is unconventional that you are allowed to touch him,” Bluefingers continued.  “Fathering a child is a necessary encumbrance for him.  It is our job to present you in as pleasing a way as possible, and to avoid--at all costs--irritating him.” 
	Austre, God of colors, she thought.  What kind of creature is this?
	Bluefingers eyed her.  “I know something of your temperament, Vessel,” he said.  “We have, of course, researched the children of the Idrian monarchy.  Allow me be a little more personal, and perhaps a little more direct, than I would prefer.  If you speak directly to the God King, he will order you executed.  Unlike your father, he is not a man of patience.
	 “I cannot stress this point enough.  I realize that you are accustomed to being a very important person.  Indeed, you still are that important--if not more so.  You are far above myself and these others.  However, as far as you are above us, the God King is even farther above you.
	“His Immortal Majesty is. . . special.  The doctrines teach that the earth itself is too base for him.  He is one who achieved transcendence before he was even born, but then Returned to bring his people blessings and visions.  You are being given a special trust.  Please, do not betray it--and please, please to not provoke his anger.  Do you understand?”
	Siri nodded slowly, feeling her hair bleach back to white.  She tried to steel herself, but what courage she could gather felt like a sham.  No, she wasn’t going to be able to stomach this creature as easily as the Lifeless or the city colors.  His reputation in Idris wasn’t exaggerated.  In a short time, he was going to take her body and do with it as he wished.  Part of her felt a rage at that--but it was the rage of frustration.  The rage that came knowing that something horrible was coming, and from being unable to do anything at all about it.
	The serving women backed away from her, leaving her half-floating in the soapy water.  One of the servants looked to Bluefingers and nodded her head in respect. 
	“Ah, finished are we?” he asked.  “Excellent.  You and your ladies are efficient, as always, Jlan.  Let us proceed, then.”
	“Can’t they speak?” Siri asked quietly.
	“Of course they can,” Bluefingers said.  “But they are dedicated servants of his Immortal Majesty.  During their hours of service, their duty is to be as useful as possible without being distracting.  Now, if you’ll continue. . . .”
	Siri stayed in the water, even when the silent women tried to pull her out.  Bluefingers turned around with a sigh, putting his back to her.  He reached over and turned the serving boy around as well.
	Siri finally allowed herself to be led out of the bath.  The wet women left her, walking into a side room--probably to change--and several others led Siri toward a smaller tub for rinsing.  She stepped down into the water, which was much colder than the other bath, and gasped.  The women motioned for her to dunk, and she cringed, but did so, cleaning off most of the soap.  After that, there was a final, third tub.  As Siri approached, shivering, she could smell strong floral scents coming from it.
	“What’s this?” Siri asked.
	“Perfumed bath,” Bluefingers said, still turned away.  “If you prefer, you may have one of the palace masseuses rub perfume onto your body instead.  I advise against that, however, considering time restraints. . . .”  
	Siri blushed, imagining anyone--male or female--rubbing her body with perfume.  “This will be fine,” she said, climbing down into the water.  It was lukewarm, and the floral scents were so strong that she had to breathe through her mouth.  
	The women motioned downward, and--sighing--Siri dunked beneath the scented water.  After that, she climbed out, and several women finally approached with fluffy towels.  They began to pat Siri down, their touch as delicate and soft as the previous scrubbing had been hard.  This took away some of the strong scent, for which Siri was glad.  Other women approached with a deep blue robe, and she extended her arms, allowing them to put it on her, then tie it shut.  “You may turn around,” she told the steward.
	“Excellent,” Bluefingers said, doing so.  He strode toward a door at the side of the room, waving for her.  “Quickly, now.  We still have much to do.”
	Siri and the serving women followed, leaving the maroon room for one that was decorated in bright yellows.  It held a lot more furniture, no bath, and a large plush chair in the center of the room. 
	“His majesty is associated with no single hue,” Bluefingers said, waving to the bright colors of the room as the women led Siri to the plush chair.  “He represents all colors and each of the Iridescent Tones.  Therefore, each room is decorated with a different shade.”
	Siri sat, and the women began to work on her nails.  Another tried to brush out the snarls that had come from the hearty washing.  Siri frowned. “Just cut it off,” she said.
	They hesitated. “Vessel?” one asked.
	“Cut off the hair,” she said.
	Bluefingers gave them permission, and a few snips later, her hair was in a bunch on the floor.  Then Siri closed her eyes and focused.
	She wasn’t certain how she did it.  The Royal Locks had always been part of her life; altering them was like moving any other muscle to her, if more difficult.  In a few moments, she was able to get the hair to grow.  
	Several women gasped softly as the hair sprouted from Siri’s head and moved down to her shoulders.  Growing it made her feel hungry and tired, but it was better than letting the women fight snarls.  Finished, she opened her eyes.
	Bluefingers was watching her with an inquisitive expression, his ledger held loosely in his fingers.  “That is. . .fascinating,” he said.  “The Royal Locks.  We have waited quite some time for them to grace the palace again, Vessel.  You can change the color at will?”
	“Yes,” Siri said.  Some of the time, at least.  “Is it too long?”
	“Long hair is seen as a sign of beauty in Hallandren, my lady,” Bluefingers said.  “I know you keep it bound up in Idris, but here, flowing hair is favored by many of the women--particularly the goddesses.”
	Part of her wanted to keep the hair short just out of spite, but he was beginning to realize that such an attitude could get her killed in Hallandren.  Instead, she closed her eyes and focused again.  The hair had been shoulder length, but she extended it for several minutes, making it grow until it would reach all the way down her back once she stood.
	Siri opened her eyes. 
	“Beautiful,” one of the younger serving women whispered, then flushed, immediately returning to her work on Siri’s toenails.
	“Very nice,” Bluefingers agreed.  “I will leave you here--I have a few things to deal with--but will return shortly.”
	Siri nodded as he left, and several women moved in and began to apply makeup.  Siri suffered it pensively, others still working on her nails and hair.  This wasn’t how she had imagined her wedding day.  Marriage had always seemed distant to her, something that would only happen after spouses had been chosen for her siblings.  When she’d been very young, in fact, she’d always said that she intended to raise horses instead of getting married.  
	She’d grown out of that, but a part of her felt a longing for such simple times.  She didn’t want to be married.  Not yet.  She still felt like a child, even if her body had become that of a woman.  She wanted to play in the hills and pick flowers and tease her father.  She wanted time to experience more of life before she was forced into the responsibilities of child-bearing.
	Fate had taken that opportunity away from her.  Now she was faced by the imminent prospect of going to a man’s bed.  A man who wouldn’t speak to her, and who wouldn’t care who she was or what she wanted.  She knew the physical requirements of what would be involved--she could thank Mab the cook for some candid discussions on that point--but emotionally, she just felt petrified.  She wanted to run, hide, flee as far as she could.
	Did all women feel this way, or was it only those who were being washed, primped, and sent to please a deity with the power to destroy nations?
	Bluefingers eventually returned.  Another person entered behind him, an elderly man in the blue and silver clothing Siri was beginning to associate with those who served the God King.
	But. . .Bluefingers wears brown, Siri thought, frowning.  Why is that?
	“Ah, I see that my timing is perfect,” Bluefingers said as the women finished.  They retreated to the sides of the room, heads bowed.
	Bluefingers nodded to the elderly man.  “Vessel, this is one of the palace healers.  Before you are taken to the God King, you will need to be inspected to determine if you are a maiden and to ensure that you don’t have certain diseases.  It’s really just a formality, but one that I’m afraid I must insist upon.  In consideration of your bashfulness, I did not bring the young healer I had originally assigned to the job.  I assume an older healer will make you more comfortable?”
	Siri sighed, but nodded.  Bluefingers gestured toward a padded table on the side of the room, then he and his serving boy turned around.  Siri undid her robe and went to the table, lying down to continue what was proving to be the most embarrassing day of her life.  
	It will only get worse, she thought as the doctor did his examination. 
	Susebron, the God King.  Awesome, terrible, holy, majestic.  He had been stillborn, but had Returned.  What did that do to a man?  Would he even be human, or would he be some monster, terrible to behold?  He was said to be eternal, but obviously his reign would end eventually, otherwise he wouldn’t need an heir.  
	She shivered, wishing it could just be over with, but also grateful for anything that delayed matters for just a little longer, even something as humiliating as the doctor’s prodding.  That was soon done, however, and Siri quickly did up her robe again, standing.  
	“She is quite healthy,” the healer said to Bluefingers.  “And most likely still a maiden.  She also has a very strong Breath.”
	Siri froze.  How could he tell. . . .  
	And then she saw it.  She had to look very closely, but the yellow floor around the surgeon looked a tad too bright.  She felt herself pale, though the nervousness had already made her hair as white as it went.
	The doctor is an Awakener, she thought.  There is an Awakener here, in this room.  And he touched me.
	She cringed, skin writhing.  It was wrong to take the Breath from another person.  It was the ultimate in arrogance, the complete opposite of Idris philosophy.  Others in Hallandren simply wore bright colors to draw attention to themselves, but Awakeners. . .they stole the life from human beings, and used that to make themselves stand out.
	The perverted use of Breath was one of the main reasons that the Royal line had moved to the highlands in the first place.  Modern-day Hallandren existed on the basis of extorting the Breath of its people.  Siri felt more naked now than she had when actually unclothed.  What could this Awakener tell about her, because of his unnatural life force?  Was he tempted to steal Siri’s BioChroma?  She tried to breathe as shallowly as possible, just in case.
	Eventually, Bluefingers and the terrible doctor left the room.  The women approached to undo her robe once again, some bearing undergarments.
	He will be worse, she realized.  The King.  He’s not just an Awakener, he’s Returned.  He needs to suck the Breath from people in order to survive.
	Would he take away her Breath? 
	No, that won’t happen, she told herself firmly.  He needs me to provide him with an heir of the Royal line.  He won’t risk the child’s safety.  He’ll leave me my Breath, if only until then.
	But. . .what would happen to her when she was no longer needed?  
	Her attention was drawn away from such thoughts as several serving women approached with a large bundle of cloth.  A dress.  No, a gown--a gorgeous gown of blue and silver.  Focusing on it seemed better than thinking about what the God King would do with her once she bore him a son. 
	Siri waited quietly as the women put it on her.  The fabric was amazingly soft on her skin, the velvet smooth as petals from a highland flower.  As the women adjusted it on her, she noticed that--oddly--it laced up the side instead of the back.  It had an extremely long train and sleeves that were so long that if she put her arms down at the sides, the cuffs hung a good foot below her hands.  It took several minutes for the women to get the ties done up right, the folds situated correctly, and the train even behind her.  All this so that it can be taken off again in a few minutes, Siri thought with a detached sense of cold irony as a woman approached with a mirror.
	Siri froze.  
	Where had all that color come from?  The delicately red cheeks, the mysteriously dark eyes, the blue on the top of her eyelids?  The deep red lips, the almost glowing skin?  The gown shone silver upon blue, bulky yet beautiful, with ripples of deep, velvet cloth. 
	It was like nothing she’d seen in Idris.  It was more amazing, even, than the colors she’d seen on the people in the city.  Staring at herself in the mirror, Siri was almost able to forget her worries.  “Thank you,” she whispered.  
	That must have been the right response, for the serving women smiled, glancing at each other.  Two took her hands, moving much more respectfully now than when they’d first rushed her from the carriage.  Siri strode with them, train rustling behind her, and the other women stayed behind.  Siri turned, and the women curtseyed to her one at a time, heads bowed.  
	The last two--the ones leading her--opened a door, then gently pushed her out into the hallway beyond.  They closed the door, leaving her.
	The hallway was of the deepest black.  She’d almost forgotten how dark the stone walls of the palace were.  The hallway was empty, save for Bluefingers, who stood waiting for her with his ledger.  He smiled, bowing his head in respect.  “The God King will be pleased, Vessel,” he said.  “We are exactly on time--the sun only just set.”
	Siri turned from Bluefingers.  Directly across from her was a large, imposing door.  It was plated entirely with gold.  Four wall lamps shone without colored glass, and they reflected light off the gilded portal.  She had no question as to who lay beyond such an impressive entrance.
	“This is the God King’s sleeping chambers,” Bluefingers said.  “Rather, one of his sleeping chambers.  Now, my lady, you must hear this again.  Do nothing to offend the King.  You are here at his sufferance, and are here to see to his needs.  Not mine, not your own, and not even that of our kingdom.”
	“I understand,” she said quietly, heart beating faster and faster.
	“Thank you,” Bluefingers said.  “It is time to present yourself.  Enter the room, then remove your dress and underclothing.  Bow yourself to the ground before the King’s bed, touching your head to the floor.  When he wishes for you to approach, he will knock on the side post, and you may look up.  He will then wave you forward.”
	She nodded.
	“Just. . .try not to touch him too much.”
	Siri frowned, clenching and unclenching her increasingly nervous hands.  “How exactly am I going to manage that?  We’re going to have sex, aren’t we?” 
	Bluefingers flushed.  “Yes, I guess you are.  This is new ground for me too, my lady.  The God King. . .well, only a group of specially dedicated servants are supposed to touch him.  My suggestion would be to avoid kissing him, caressing him, or doing anything else that might offend him.  Simply let him do to you what he wishes, and you should be safe.”
	Siri took a deep breath, nodding.
	“When you are finished,” Bluefingers said, “the King will withdraw.  Take the bed linens and burn them in the hearth.  As the Vessel, you are the only one allowed to handle such things.  Do you understand?”
	“Yes,” Siri said, growing increasingly anxious.
	“Very well then,” Bluefingers said, looking almost as nervous as she was.  “Good luck.”  With that, he reached forward and pushed the door open.  
	Oh, Austre, God of Colors, she thought, heart pounding, hands sweating, growing numb.
	Bluefingers pushed her lightly on the back, and she stepped into the room.
 

Chapter Seven


	The door shut behind her.  
	A large fire growled in a hearth to her left, bringing a shifting orange light to the large room.  The black walls seemed to draw in and absorb the illumination, making deep shadows at the edges of the room.
	Siri stood quietly in her ornate velvet dress, heart thumping, brow sweating.  To her right, she could make out a massive bed, with sheets and covers of black to match the rest of the room.  The bed appeared unoccupied.  Siri peered into the darkness, eyes adjusting. 
	The fire crackled, throwing a flicker of light across a large, throne-like chair sitting beside the bed.  It was occupied by a figure wearing black, bathed in darkness.  He watched her, eyes twinkling, unblinking in the firelight.
	Siri gasped, casting her eyes downward, her heartbeat surging as she remembered Bluefingers’ warnings.  Vivenna should be here instead of me, Siri thought desperately.  I can’t deal with this!  Father was wrong to send me!
	She squeezed her eyes shut, her breathing coming more quickly.  She worked shaking fingers and pulled nervously at the strings on the side of her dress.  Her hands were slick with sweat.  Was she taking too long to undress?  Would he be angered?  Would she be killed before even the first night was out?
	Would she, perhaps, prefer that?
	No, she thought with determination.  No.  I need to do this.  For Idris.  For the fields and the children who took flowers from me.  For my father and Mab and everyone else in the palace.
	She finally got the strings undone, and the gown fell away with surprising ease--she could now see that it had been constructed with that goal in mind.  She dropped the dress to the floor then paused, looking at her undershift.  The white fabric was throwing out a spectrum of colors, like light bent by a prism.  She regarded this with shock, wondering what was causing the strange effect.
	It didn’t matter.  She was too nervous to think about that.  Gritting her teeth, she forced herself to pull off her undershift, leaving her naked.  She quickly knelt on the cold stone floor, curling up, heart thudding in her ears as she bowed with her forehead touching the floor.
	The room fell silent save for the crackling hearth.  The fire wasn’t necessary in the Hallandren warmth, but she was glad for it, unclothed as she was.  
	She waited, hair pure white, arrogance and stubbornness discarded, naked in more than one way.  This is where she ended up--this is where all her ‘independent’ sense of freedom came to an end.  No matter what she claimed or how she felt, in the end, she had to bow to authority.  Just like anyone else.
	She gritted her teeth, imagining the God King sitting there, watching her be subservient and naked before him.  She hadn’t seen much of him, other than to notice his size--he was a good foot taller than most other men she’d seen, and was wider of shoulders and more powerful of build as well.  More significant than other, lesser men.
	He was Returned.
	In and of itself, Being Returned wasn’t a sin.  After all, Returned came in Idris too.  The Hallandren people, however, kept the Returned alive, feeding them on the souls of peasants, tearing away the Breath of hundreds of people each year. . . .
	Don’t think of that, Siri told herself forcefully.  Yet as she tried to clear her thoughts, the God King’s eyes returned to her memory.  Those black eyes, which had seemed to glow in the firelight.  She could feel them on her still, watching her, as cold as the stones upon which she knelt.
	The fire crackled.  Bluefingers had said that the King would knock for her.  What if she missed it?  She didn’t dare glance upward.  She’d already met his gaze once, if by accident.  She couldn’t risk upsetting him further.  She just continued to kneel in place, elbows on the ground, back beginning to ache.  
	Why doesn’t he do something? 
	Was he was displeased with her?  Was she not as pretty as he’d desired, or was he angered that she’d met his eyes then taken too long to undress?  It would be particularly ironic if she offended him when trying so hard not to be her usual flippant self.  Or was something else wrong?  He had been promised the eldest daughter of the Idrian king, but had instead received Siri.  Would he know the difference?  Would he even care?
	The minutes passed, the room growing darker as the fire consumed its logs.  
	He’s toying with me, Siri thought.  Forcing me to wait on his whims.  Making her kneel in such an uncomfortable position was probably a message--one that showed who was in power.  He would take her when he willed it, and not before.
	Siri gritted her teeth as the time passed.  How long had she been kneeling?  An hour, maybe longer.  And still, there wasn’t a hint of sound--no knock, no cough, not even a shuffle from the God King.  Perhaps it was a test, to see how long she would remain as she was.  Perhaps she was just reading too much into things.  Either way, she forced herself to remain in place, shifting only when she absolutely had to.  
	Vivenna had the training.  Vivenna had the poise and the refinement.  But Siri, she had the stubbornness.  One only had to look back at her history of repeatedly ignoring lessons and duties to appreciate that.  With time, she’d even broken down her father.  He’d started letting her do as she pleased, if only to save his own sanity.
	And so she continued to wait--naked in the light of the coals--as the night wore on.
#
	Fireworks sprayed sparks up in a fountain of light.  Some fell close to where Lightsong was sitting, and these blazed with an extra, frenzied light until they died away.  
	He reclined on a couch in the open air, watching the display.  Servants waited around him, complete with parasols, a portable bar, steaming and chilled towels to rub his face and hands should he feel the need, and a host of other luxuries that--to Lightsong--were simply commonplace.
	He watched the fireworks with mild interest.  The firemasters stood in a nervous cluster near his position.  Beside them were a troop of minstrels that Lightsong had called for, but hadn’t yet asked to perform.  While there were always entertainers in the Court of Gods for the Returned to enjoy, this night--the wedding night of their God King--was even more extravagant in that regard.  
	Susebron wasn’t in attendance himself, of course.  Such festivities were beneath him.  Lightsong glanced to the side, where the King’s palace rose soberly above the Court.  Eventually, Lightsong just shook his head and turned his attention back to the courtyard.  The palaces of the gods formed a ring, and each building had a patio below and a balcony above, both facing the central area.  Lightsong sat a short distance from his patio, out amidst the lush grass of the expansive courtyard. 
	Another firefountain sprayed into the air, throwing shadows across the courtyard.  Lightsong sighed, accepting another fruit drink from a servant.  The night was cool and pleasant, fit for a god.  Or gods.  Lightsong could see others set up in front of their palaces.  Different groups of performers cluttered the sides of the courtyard, waiting for their chance to please one of the Returned.  
	The fountain ran low, and the firemasters looked toward him, smiling hopefully in the torchlight.  Lightsong nodded with his best benevolent expression.  “More fireworks,” he said.  “You have pleased me.”  This caused the three men to whisper in excitement and wave for their assistants.
	As they set up, a familiar figure wandered into Lightsong’s ring of torches.  Llarimar wore his priestly robes, as always.  Even when he was out in the city--which was where he should have been this night--he represented Lightsong and his priesthood.
	“Scoot?” Lightsong asked, sitting up.
	“Your grace,” Llarimar said, bowing.  “Are you enjoying the festivities?”
	“Certainly.  You might say I’m positively infested with them.  But what are you doing here in the court?  You should be out with your family.”
	“I just wanted to make certain everything was to your liking.”
	Lightsong rubbed his forehead.  “You’re giving me a headache, Scoot.”
	“You can’t get headaches, your grace.”  
	“So you’re fond of telling me,” Lightsong said.  “I assume the revelry outside the Holy Prison is nearly as amazing as what we have here inside?”
	Llarimar frowned at Lightsong’s dismissive reference to the divine compound, but responded without any reproof.  “The party in the city is fantastic, your Grace.  T’Telir hasn’t seen a festival this grand in decades.”
	“Then I repeat that you should be out enjoying it.” 
	“I just--”
	“Scoot,” Lightsong said, giving the man a pointed look, “if there’s one thing you can trust me to do competently on my own, it’s enjoy myself.  I will--I promise in all solemnity--have a ravishingly good time drinking to excess and watching these nice men light things on fire.  Now go be with your family.”
	Llarimar paused, then stood, bowed, and withdrew. 
	That man, Lightsong thought, sipping his fruity drink, takes his work far too seriously.
	The concept amused Lightsong, and he leaned back, enjoying the fireworks.  However, he was soon distracted by the approach of someone else.  Or, rather, one very important someone else leading a group of far less important someone elses.  Lightsong sipped his drink again. 
	The newcomer was beautiful.  She was a goddess, after all.  Glossy black hair, pale skin, lushly curvaceous body.  She wore far less clothing than Lightsong did, but that was typical of the Court’s goddesses.  Her thin gown of green and silver silk was split on both sides, showing hips and thighs, and the neckline was draped so low that very little was left to imagination.
	Blushweaver the Beautiful, Goddess of Honesty.
	This should be interesting, Lightsong thought, smiling to himself.  
	She was trailed by about thirty servants, not to mention her high priest and six lesser priests.  The firemasters grew excited, realizing that they now had not one, but two divine observers.  Their apprentices scurried about in a flurry of motion, setting up another series of firefountains.  A group of Blushweaver’s servants rushed forward, carrying an ornate couch, which they set on the grass beside Lightsong.  
	Blushweaver lay down with customary lithe grace, crossing perfect legs and resting on her side in a seductive yet lady-like pose.  The orientation left her able to watch the fireworks should she wish, but her attention was obviously focused on Lightsong.
	“My dear Lightsong,” she said as a servant approached with a bunch of grapes.  “Aren’t you even going to greet me?”
	Here we go, Lightsong thought.  “My dear Blushweaver,” he said, setting aside his cup and lacing his fingers before him.  “Why would I go and do something rude like that?”
	“Rude?” she asked, amused.
	“Of course.  You obviously make quite a determined effort to draw attention to yourself--the details are magnificent, by the way.  Is that makeup on your thighs?”
	She smiled, biting into a grape.  “It’s a kind of paint.  The designs were drawn by some of the most talented artists in my priesthood.”
	“My compliments to them,” Lightsong said.  “Regardless, you ask why I did not greet you.  Well, let us assume that I had acted as you suggest I should.  Upon your approach, you would have had me gush over you?”
	“Naturally.”
	“You would have me point out how stunning you appear in that gown?”
	“I wouldn’t complain.”
	“Mention how your dazzling eyes glisten in the fireworks like burning embers?”
	“That would be nice.”
	“Expound on how your lips are so perfectly red that they could dumbfound any man, yet drive him compose the most brilliant of poetry each time he recalled the moment?”
	“I’d be flattered for certain.”
	“And you claim you want these reactions from me?”
	“I do.”
	“Well blast it woman,” Lightsong said, picking up his cup.  “If I’m stunned, dazzled, and dumbfounded, then how the hell am I supposed to greet you?  By definition, won’t I be expected to remain in silence?”
	She laughed.  “Well, then, you’ve obviously found your tongue now.”
	“Surprisingly, it was in my mouth,” he said.  “I always forget to check there.”
	“But isn’t that where it is expected to be?”
	“My dear,” he said, “haven’t you know me long enough to realize that my tongue, of all things, rarely does what it is expected to do?”
	Blushweaver smiled as the fireworks went off again.  Within the auras of two Gods, the sparks’ colors grew quite powerful indeed.  On the far side, some sparks fell to the ground too far from the Breath Auras, and these looked dull and weak in comparison--as if their fire were so cool and insignificant that they could be picked up and tucked away. 
	Blushweaver turned from the display.  “So you do find me beautiful?”
	“Of course.  Why, my dear, you’re positively rank with beauty.  You’re literally part of the definition of the word--it’s in your title somewhere, if I’m not mistaken.”
	“My dear Lightsong, I do believe that you’re making sport of me.”
	“I never make fun of ladies, Blushweaver,” Lightsong said, picking up his drink again.  “Mocking a woman is like drinking too much wine.  It may be fun for a short time, but the hangover is hell.”
	Blushweaver paused.  “But we don’t get hangovers, for we cannot get drunk.”
	“We can’t?” Lightsong asked.  “Then why the blazes am I drinking all of this wine?”
	Blushweaver raised an eyebrow.  “Sometimes, Lightsong, ” she finally said, “I’m not certain when you are being silly and when you’re being serious.”
	“Well, I can help you with that one easily enough,” he said.  “If you ever conclude that I’m being serious, then you can be sure that you’ve been working too hard on the problem.”
	“I see,” she said, twisting on her couch so that she was face down.  She leaned on her elbows with breasts pushed up between them, fireworks lighting her exposed back.  “So, then.  You admit that I’m stunning and beautiful.  Would you then care to retire from the festivities this evening?  Find. . .other entertainments?”
	Lightsong hesitated.  Being unable to bear children didn’t stop the Gods from seeking intimacy, particularly with other Returned.  In fact, from what Lightsong could guess, the impossibility of offspring only increased the laxness of the Court in these matters.  Many a god took mortal lovers--Blushweaver was known to have a few of her own among her priests.  Dalliances with mortals were never seen as infidelity among the gods.
	Blushweaver lounged on her couch, supple, inviting.  Lightsong opened his mouth, but in his mind, he saw. . .her.  The woman of his vision, the one from his dreams, the face he’d mentioned to Llarimar.  Who was she? 
	Probably nothing.  A flash from his former life, or perhaps simply an image crafted by his subconscious.  Maybe even, as the priests claimed, some kind of prophetic symbol.  That face shouldn’t give him pause.  Not when confronted with perfection.   
	“I. . .must decline,” he found himself saying.  “I need to watch the fireworks.”
	“Are they that much more fascinating than I?”
	“Not at all.  They simply seem far less likely to burn me.”
	She laughed at that.  “Well, why don’t we wait until they are through, then retire?”
	“Alas,” Lightsong said.  “I still must decline.  I am far too lazy.”
	“Too lazy for sex?” Blushweaver asked, rolling back onto her side and regarding him.  
	“I’m really quite indolent.  A poor example of a god, as I keep telling my high priest.  Nobody seems to listen to me, so I fear that I must continue to be diligent in proving my point.  Dallying with you would, unfortunately, undermine the entire basis of my argument.”
	Blushweaver shook her head.  “You confuse me sometimes, Lightsong.  If it weren’t for your reputation, I’d simply presume you to be shy.  How could you have slept with Calmseer, but consistently ignore me?”
	Calmseer was the last honorable Returned this city has known, Lightsong thought, sipping his drink.  Nobody left has a shred of her decency.  Myself included.
	Blushweaver fell silent, watching the latest display from the firemasters.  The show had grown progressively more ornate, and Lightsong was considering calling halt, lest they use up all of their fireworks on him and not have any left should another god call upon them. 
	Blushweaver didn’t make any move to return to her own palace grounds, and Lightsong said nothing further.  He suspected that she hadn’t come simply for verbal sparring, or even to try and bed him.  Blushweaver always had her plans.  In Lightsong’s experience, there was more depth to the woman than her gaudy surface suggested.  
	Eventually, his hunch paid off.  She turned from the fireworks, eying the dark palace of the God King.   “We have a new queen.”
	“I noticed,” Lightsong said.  “Though, admittedly, only because I was reminded several times.”
	They fell silent.
	“Have you no thoughts on the matter?” Blushweaver finally asked.
	“I try to avoid having thoughts.  They lead to other thoughts, and--if you’re not careful--those lead to actions.  Actions make you tired.  I have this on rather good authority from someone who once read it in a book.”
	Blushweaver sighed.  “You avoid thinking, you avoid me, you avoid effort. . .is there anything you don’t avoid?”
	“Breakfast.”
	Blushweaver didn’t react to this, which Lightsong found disappointing.  She was too focused on the King’s palace.  Lightsong usually tried to ignore the large black building; he didn’t like how it seemed to loom over him.
	“Perhaps you should make an exception,” Blushweaver said, “and give some thought to this particular situation.  This queen means something.”
	Lightsong turned his cup around in his fingers.  He knew that Blushweaver’s priests were among those who called most strongly for war in the Court Assembly.  He hadn’t forgotten his phantom nightmare from earlier, the vision of T’Telir on fire.  That image refused to fade from his mind.  He never said anything for or against the idea of war.  He just didn’t want to be involved.
	“We’ve had queens before,” he finally said.
	“Never one of the royal line,” Blushweaver replied.  “At least, there hasn’t been one since the days of Kalad the Usurper.”
	Kalad.  The man who had started the Manywar, the one who had used his knowledge of BioChromatic Breath to create a vast army of Lifeless and seize power in Hallandren.  He had protected the kingdom with his armies, yet had shattered the kingdom as well by driving the Royals into the highlands. 
	Now they were back.  Or, at least, one of them was.
	“This is a dangerous day, Lightsong,” Blushweaver said quietly.  “What happens if that woman bears a child who isn’t Returned?”
	“Impossible,” Lightsong said.
	“Oh?  You are that confident?” 
	Lightsong nodded.  “Of the Returned, only the God King can engender children, and they’re always stillborn.”
	Blushweaver shook her head.  “The only word we have for that is from the palace priests themselves.  Yet I’ve heard of. . .discrepancies in the records.  Even if we don’t worry about those, there are plenty of other considerations.  Why do we need a Royal to ‘legitimize’ our throne?  Isn’t three hundred years of rule by the Court of Gods sufficient to make the kingdom legitimate?”
	Lightsong didn’t respond.  
	“This marriage implies that we still accept royal authority,” Blushweaver said.  “What happens if that king up in the highlands decides to take his lands back?  What happens if that queen of ours in there has a child by another man?  Who is the heir?  Who rules?”
	“The God King rules.  Everyone knows that.”
	“He didn’t rule three hundred years ago,” Blushweaver said.  “The Royals did.  Then, after them, Kalad did--and after him, Peacegiver.  Change can happen quickly.  By inviting that woman into our city, we may have initiated the end of Returned rule in Hallandren.”
	She fell silent, pensive.  Lightsong studied the beautiful Goddess.  It had been fifteen years since her Return--which made her old, for a Returned.  Old, wise, and incredibly crafty.  
	Blushweaver glanced at him.  “I don’t intend to find myself caught, surprised, like the Royals were when Kalad seized their throne.  Some of us are planning, Lightsong.  You can join us, if you wish.”
	“Politics, my dear,” he said with a sigh.  “You know how I loathe it.”
	“You’re the God of bravery.  We could use your confidence.”
	“At this point, I’m only confident that I’ll be of no use to you.”
	Her face stiffened as she tried not to show her frustration.  Eventually, she sighed and stood, stretching, showing off her perfect figure once more.  “You’ll have to stand for something eventually, Lightsong,” she said.  “You’re a god to this people.”
	“Not by choice, my dear.” 
	She smiled, then bent down and kissed him softly.  “Just consider what I said.  You’re a better man than you give yourself credit for being.  You think I’d offer myself to just anyone?”
	He hesitated, then frowned.  “Actually. . .yes.  I do.”
	She laughed, turning as her servants picked up her couch.  “Oh, come now!  There must be at least three of the other Gods I wouldn’t think of letting touch me.  Enjoy the party, and do try to imagine what our King is doing to our legacy up there in his chambers right now.   She glanced back at him.  “Particularly if that imagining reminds you of what you just missed out on.”  She winked, then glided away.
	Lightsong sat back on his couch, then dismissed the firemasters with words of praise.  As the minstrels began to play, he tried to empty his mind of both Blushweaver’s ominous words and the visions of war that had plagued his dreams.
	He failed on both counts.
 
 

Chapter Eight


	Siri groaned, rolling over.  Her back hurt, her arms hurt, and her head hurt.  In fact, she was so uncomfortable that she couldn’t stay asleep, despite her fatigue.  She sat up, holding her head.
	She’d spent the night on the floor of the God King’s bed chamber--sleeping, kind of.  Sunlight poured into the room, reflecting off of the marble where the floor wasn’t covered with rugs.
	Black rugs, she thought, sitting in the middle of the rumpled blue dress, which she’d used as both blanket and pillow.  Black rugs on a black floor with black furniture.  These Hallandrens certainly know how to run with a motif.
	The God King wasn’t in the room.  Siri glanced toward the oversized black leather chair where he’d spent much of the night.  She hadn’t seen noticed him leave.  
	She yawned, then rose, pulling her shift out of the wadded mound of dress and putting it on over her head.  She pulled her hair out, flipping it behind her.  Keeping it so long was going to take some getting used to.  It fell down against her back, a contented blonde in color.  
	She’d somehow survived the night untouched.  
	She walked on bare feet over to the leather chair, running her fingers along its smooth surface.  She’d been less than respectful.  She’d dozed off.  She’d curled up and pulled her dress close.  She’d even glanced over at the chair a few times.  Not because of defiance or a disobedient heart; she’d simply been too drowsy to remember that she wasn’t supposed to look at the God King.  And he hadn’t ordered her executed.  Bluefingers had had made her worry that the God King was volatile and quick to anger, yet if that were the case, then he had held his temper with her.  What else was he going to do?  The Hallandren had waited for decades to get a Royal princess to marry into their line of God Kings.  She smiled.  I do have some power.  He couldn’t kill her--not until he had what he wanted.  
	It wasn’t much, but it did give her a bit more confidence.  She walked around the chair, noting its size.  Everything in the room was built to be just a little too large, skewing her perspective, making her feel shorter than she was.  She rested her hand on the arm of the chair, and found herself wondering why he hadn’t decided to take her.  What was wrong with her?  Wasn’t she desirable?
	Foolish girl, she told herself, shaking her head and walking over to the still-undisturbed bed.  You spent most of the trip here worrying about what would happen on your wedding night, and then when nothing happens, you complain about that too?
	She knew she wasn’t free.  He would take her eventually--that was the point of the entire arrangement.  But it hadn’t happened last night.  She smiled, yawning, then she climbed up into the bed and curled up under the covers, drifting off.
#
	The next time she woke was a great deal more pleasant than the previous one had been.  Siri stretched, and then noticed something.
	Her dress, which she’d left sitting in a heap on the floor, was gone.  Also, the fire in the hearth had been rebuilt--though why that was necessary was beyond her.  The day was warm, and she’d kicked off the covers as she’d slept.  
	I’m supposed to burn the sheets, she remembered.  That’s the reason they stoked the fire.
	She sat up in her shift, alone in the black room.  The servants and priests wouldn’t know that she’d spent the entire night on the floor unless the God King had told someone.  How likely would it be for a man of his power to speak with his priests about intimate details?
	Slowly, Siri climbed out of bed and pulled the sheets free.  She wadded them up, walked over, and threw them into the large hearth.  Then she watched the flames.  She still didn’t know why the God King had left her alone.  Until she knew, it was surely better to just let everyone assume that the marriage had been consummated.
	After the sheets were done burning, Siri scanned the room, looking for something to wear.  She found nothing.  Sighing, she walked to the door, clothed only in her shift.  She pulled it open, and jumped slightly.  Two dozen serving women of varying ages knelt outside.  
	God of Colors! Siri thought.  How long have they been kneeling out here?  Suddenly, she didn’t feel quite so indignant at being forced to wait upon the God King’s whims.  
	The women stood up, heads bowed, and walked into the room.  Siri backed up, cocking her head she noticed that several of the women carried in large chests.  They’re dressed in different colors from the day before, Siri thought.  The cut was the same--divided skirts, like flowing trousers, topped with sleeveless blouses and small caps, their hair coming out the back.   Instead of the blue and silver, the outfits were now yellow and copper.
	The women opened the trunks, removing various layers of clothing.  All were of bright colors, and each was of a different cut.  The women spread them out on the floor before Siri, then settled back on their knees, waiting.
	Siri hesitated.  She’d grown up the daughter of a king, so she’d never really lacked.  Yet, life in Idris was austere.  She’d owned five dresses, which had nearly been an extravagant number.  One had been white, and the other four had been the same wan blue.  
	Being confronted by so many colors and options felt overwhelming.  She tried to imagine how each would look on her.  Many of them were dangerously low cut, even more so than the shirts the serving women wore--and those were already scandalous by Idris standards.  
	Finally, hesitantly, Siri pointed at one outfit.  It was a dress in two pieces, red skirt and matching blouse.  As Siri pointed, the serving women stood, some putting away the unchosen outfits, others walking over to carefully remove Siri’s shift.  
	In a few minutes, Siri was dressed.  She was embarrassed to find that--while the clothing fit her perfectly--the blouse was designed to reveal her midriff.  Still, it wasn’t as low cut as the others, and the skirt went all the way down to her calves.  The silky red material was far lighter than the thick wools and linen she was accustomed to wearing.  The skirt flared and ruffled when she turned, and Siri couldn’t be completely certain it wasn’t sheer.  Standing in it, she almost felt as naked as she’d been during the night.
	That appears to be a recurring theme for me here, she thought wryly as the serving women backed away.  Others approached with a stool, and she sat, waiting as the women cleaned her face and arms with a pleasantly warm cloth.  When that was done, they re-applied her makeup, did her hair, then sprayed her with a few puffs of perfume.
	When she opened her eyes--perfume misting down around her--Bluefingers was standing in the room.  “Ah, excellent,” he said, servant boy standing obediently behind with ink, quill, and paper.  “You’re up already.”
	Already? Siri thought.  It has to be well past noon!
	Bluefingers looked her over, nodded to himself, then glanced at the bed, obviously checking to see that the linens had been destroyed.  “Well,” he said.  “I trust that your servants will see to your needs, Vessel.”  With that, he began to walk away with the anxious tread of a man who felt he had far too much to do.
	“Wait!” Siri said, standing, jostling several of her serving women.  
	Bluefingers hesitated.  “Vessel?” 
	Siri floundered, uncertain how to express what she was feeling.  “Do you know. . .what I’m supposed to do?”
	“Do, Vessel?” the scribe asked.  “You mean, in regards to. . . .” he glanced at the bed.
	Siri flushed.  “No, not that.  I mean with my time.  What are my duties?  What is expected of me?”
	“To provide an heir.”
	“Beyond that.”
	Bluefingers frowned.  “I. . .well, to be honest, Vessel, I really don’t know.  I must say, your arrival has certainly caused a level of. . .disruption in the Court of Gods.”
	In my life, too, she thought, flushing slightly, hair turning red.  
	“Not that you’re to blame, of course,” Bluefingers said quickly.  “But then. . .well, I certainly wish I’d had more forewarning.”
	“More forewarning?” Siri asked.  “This marriage was arranged by treaty over twenty years ago!”
	“Yes, well, but nobody thought. . . .” he trailed off.  “Ahem.  Well, either way, we shall do our best to accommodate you here in the King’s palace.”
	What was that? Siri thought.  Nobody thought. . .that the marriage would really happen?  Why not?  Did they assume that Idris wouldn’t keep it’s part of the bargain?
	Regardless, he still hadn’t answered her question.  “Yes, but what am I’m supposed to do,” she said, sitting down on the stool again.  “Am I to sit here in the palace and stare at the fire all day?”
	Bluefingers chuckled.  “Oh, Colors no!  My lady, this is the Court of the Gods!  You’ll find plenty to occupy you.  Each day, performers are allowed to enter the Court and display their talents for their deities.  You may have any of these brought to you for a private performance.”
	“Ah,” Siri said.  “Can I, maybe, go horseback riding?”
	Bluefingers rubbed his chin.  “I suppose we could bring some horses into the Court for you.  Of course, we’d have to wait until the Wedding Jubilations are over.”
	“Wedding Jubilations?” she asked.
	“You. . .don’t know, then?  Were you not prepared for any of this?”
	Siri flushed.
	“No offense intended, Vessel,” Bluefingers said.  “The Wedding Jubilation is a week long period in which we celebrate the God King’s marriage.  During that time, you are not to leave this palace.  At the end of it, you will officially be presented to the Court of Gods.”
	“Oh,” she said.  “And after that, I can go out of the city?”
	“Out of the city!” Bluefingers said.  “Vessel, you can’t leave the Court of Gods!”
	“What?”
	“You may not be a god yourself,” Bluefingers continued.  “But you’re the wife of the God King.  It would  be far too dangerous to let you out.  But do not fret--anything and everything you might request can be provided for you.”
	Except freedom, she thought, feeling a bit sick.
	“I assure you, once the Wedding Jubilation is over, you will find little to complain about.  Everything you could want is here: every type of indulgence, every luxury, every diversion.”
	Siri nodded numbly, still feeling trapped.  
	“Also,” Bluefingers said, holding up an ink stained finger.  “If you wish, the Court Assembly meets to provide decisions to the people.  Full assembly meets once a week, though daily there are smaller judgments to be made.  You aren’t to sit on the assembly itself, of course, but you will certainly be allowed to attend, once the Jubilation is over.  If none of this suits you, you may request an artist of the God King’s priesthood to attend you.  His priests include devout and accomplished artists from all genres: music, painting, dance, poetry, sculpture, puppetry, play performance, sandpainting, or any of the lesser genres.”  
	Siri blinked.  God of Colors! she thought.  Even being idle is daunting here.  “But there isn’t any of this that I’m required to attend?”
	“No, I shouldn’t think so,” Bluefingers said.  “Vessel, you look displeased.”
	“I. . . .”  How could she explain?  Her entire life, she’d been expected to be something--and for most of her life she’d intentionally avoided being it.  Now that was gone from her.  She couldn’t disobey lest she get herself killed and get Idris into a war.  For once, she was willing to serve, to try and be obedient.  But, ironically, there didn’t seem to be anything for her to do.  Except, of course, bear a child.  
	“Very well,” she said with a sigh.  “Where are my rooms?  I’ll go there and situate myself.”
	“Your rooms, Vessel?”
	“Yes.  I assume I’m not to reside in this chamber itself.”
	“No,” Bluefingers said, chuckling.  “The Conception room?  Of course not.”
	“Then where?” Siri asked.
	“Vessel,” Bluefingers said.  “In a way, this entire palace is yours.  I don’t see why you’d need specific rooms.  Ask to eat, and your servants will set up a table.  If you wish to rest, they will bring you a couch or a chair.  Seek entertainment, and they will fetch performers for you.”
	Suddenly, the strange actions of her servants--simply bringing her an array of colors to choose from, then doing her makeup and hair right there--made more sense.  “I see,” she said, almost to herself.  “And the soldiers I brought with me?  Did they do as I commanded?”
	“Yes, Vessel,” Bluefingers said.  “They left this morning.  It was a wise decision; they are not dedicated servants of the Tones, and would not have been allowed to remain here in the Court.  They could do you no further service.”
	Siri nodded.  
	“Vessel, if I might be excused. . . ?” Bluefingers asked.
	Siri nodded distractedly, and Bluefingers bustled away, leaving her to think about how terribly alone she was.  Can’t focus on that, she thought.  Instead, she turned to one of her serving women--a younger one, about Siri’s own age.  “Well, that really doesn’t tell me what to spend my time on, does it?”
	The servant blushed quietly, bowing her head.
	“I mean, there seems to be a lot to do, if I want,” Siri said.  “Maybe too much.”
	The girl bowed again.
	That’s going to get very annoying very quickly, Siri thought, gritting her teeth.  Part of her wanted to do something shocking to get a reaction out of the servant, but she knew she was just being foolish.  In fact, it seemed that many of her natural impulses and reactions wouldn’t work here in Hallandren.  So, too keep herself from doing something silly, Siri stood up, determined to examine her new home.  She left the overly-black room, poking her head out into the hallway.  She turned back to her servants, who stood obediently in a line behind her.
	“Is there any place I’m forbidden to go?” she asked.
	The one she was addressing shook her head.
	Fine, then, she thought.  I’d better not end up stumbling upon the God King in the bath.  She crossed the hallway, opened the door, then stepped into the yellow room she’d been in the day before.  The chair and bench she’d used had been removed, replaced by a group of yellow couches.  Siri raised an eyebrow, then walked through into the tub room beyond.
	The tub was gone.  She started.  The room was the one she remembered, with same red colorings.  Yet, the sloped tile platforms with their inset tubs were gone.  The entire contraption must have been portable, brought in for her bath, then removed.
	They really can transform any room, she thought with amazement.  They must have chambers full furniture, tubs, and drapings, each of a different color, waiting upon the whims of their god.
	Curious, she left the tub-less room and moved in a random direction.  Each room appeared to have four doors, one on each wall.  Some rooms were larger than others.  Some had windows to the outside, while others were locked in the middle of the palace.  Each was a different color, yet it was still difficult to tell the difference between them.  Endless rooms, pristine with their decorations following a single color’s theme.  Soon, she was hopelessly lost--but it didn’t seem to matter.  Every room was, in a way, the same as any other.
	She turned to her servants.  “I would like breakfast.”  
	It happened far faster than Siri would have thought possible.  Several of the women ducked out and returned with a stuffed green chair to match her current room.  Siri sat down, waiting as a table, chairs, and finally food were produced as if out of nowhere.  In less than fifteen minutes, she had a hot meal waiting for her.
	Hesitantly, she picked up a fork and tried a bite.  It wasn’t until that moment that she realized how hungry she was.  The meal was composed primarily of a group of sausages mixed with vegetables.  The flavors were far stronger than she was accustomed to.  However, the more she ate the spicy Hallandren food, the more she found herself liking it.
	Hungry or not, it was strange to eat in silence.  Siri was accustomed to either eating in the kitchens with the servants or at the table with her father, his generals, and whatever local people or monks he had invited to his home that evening.  It was never a silent affair, yet here in Hallandren--land of colors, sounds, and ostentation--she found herself eating alone, quietly, in a room that felt dull despite its bright decorations.
	Her servants watched.  None of them spoke to her.  Their silence was supposed to be respectful, she knew, but Siri just found it intimidating.  She tried several times to draw them into conversation, but she managed to get only terse replies.
	She chewed on a spiced caper.  Is this what my life is to be from now on? she thought.  A night spent feeling half-used, half-ignored my husband, then days spent surrounded by people, yet somehow still alone?
	She shivered, her appetite waning.  She set down the fork, and her food slowly grew cold on the table before her.  She stared at it, a part of her wishing she’s simply remained in the comfortable, oversized black bed.   
 
 


Chapter Nine


	Vivenna--firstborn child of Dedelin, King of Idris--gazed upon the grand city of T’Telir.  It was the ugliest place she had ever seen.
	People jostled their way through the streets, draped flagrantly in colors, yelling, and talking, and moving, and stinking, and coughing, and bumping.  Her hair lightened to gray and she pulled her shawl close as she maintained her imitation--such that it was--of an elderly woman. She had feared that she might stand out.  She needn’t have worried.  Who could ever stand out in this confusion?  
	Nevertheless, she continued the disguise.  It was best to be safe.  She had come--arriving in T’Telir just hours ago--to rescue her sister, not get to herself kidnapped.
	It was a bold plan.  Vivenna could hardly believe that she’d come up with it.  Still, of the many things her tutors had taught her, one was foremost in her mind: a leader was someone who acted.  Nobody else was going to help Siri, and so it was up to Vivenna.  
	She knew that she was inexperienced.  She hoped that her awareness of that would keep her from being too foolhardy, but she had the best education and political tutelage her kingdom could provide, and much of her training had focused on life in Hallandren.  As a devout daughter of Austre, she’d practiced all of her life to avoid standing out.  She could hide in a vast, disorganized city like T’Telir.
	And vast it was.  She’d memorized maps, but they hadn’t prepared her for the sight, sound, scent, and colors of the city on market day.  Even the livestock wore bright ribbons.  Vivenna stood at the side of the road, stooped beside a building draped in flapping streamers.  In front of her, a herdsman drove a small flock of sheep toward the market square.  They had each been dyed a different color.  Won’t that ruin the wool? Vivenna thought sourly.  The different colors on the animals clashed so terribly that she had to look away.  
	Poor Siri, she thought.  Caught up in all of this, locked in the Court of Gods, probably so overwhelmed that she can barely think.  Vivenna had been trained to deal with the terrors of Hallandren.  Though the colors sickened her, she had the fortitude to withstand them.  How would little Siri manage?
	Vivenna tapped her foot as she stood beside the building in the shadow of a large stone statue.   Where is that man? she thought.  Parlin had yet to return from his scouting.  
	There was nothing to do but wait.  She glanced up at the statue beside her; it was one of the famous D’Denir Celabrin, which had been commissioned by Peacegiver the Blessed to commemorate the end of the Manywar.  Most of the statues depicted warriors.  They stood in every imaginable pose all across the entire city, armed with weapons and often dressed in colorful clothing.  According to her lessons, the people of T’Telir found dressing the statues to be an amusing pastime.  
	Lore had it that the first ones had been commissioned by Peacegiver the Blessed, the Returned who had taken command of Hallandren at the end of the Manywar.  The number of statues had increased each year as new ones were paid for by the Returned--whose money, of course, came from the people themselves. 
	Excess and waste, Vivenna thought, shaking her head.
	Finally, she noticed Parlin coming back down the street.  She frowned as she saw that he was wearing some ridiculous frippery on his head--it looked a little like a sock, though much larger.  The bright green hat flopped down one side of his square face, and looked very out of place against his dull brown Idris travel clothing.  Tall but not lanky, Parlin was only a few years Vivenna’s senior.  She’d known him for most of her life; General Yarda’s son had practically grown up in the palace.  More recently, he’d been out in the forests, watching the Hallandren border, or guarding one of the northern passes.   
	“Parlin?” she said as he approached, carefully keeping the annoyance out of her voice and her hair.  “What is that on your head?”
	“A hat,” he said, characteristically terse.  It wasn’t that Parlin was rude; it just seemed he rarely felt he had much to say. 
	“I can see that it’s a hat, Parlin.  Where did you get it?”
	“The man in the market said they’re very popular.”  
	Vivenna sighed.  She’d hesitated to bring Parlin into the city.  He was a good man--as solid and reliable as she’d ever known--but the life he knew was one of living in the wilderness and guarding isolated outposts.  The city was probably overwhelming to him.  
	 “The hat is ridiculous, Parlin,” Vivenna said, hair controlled to keep the red out of it.  “And makes you stand out.”
	Parlin removed the hat, tucking it in his pocket.  He said nothing further, but did turn, watching the crowds of people pass.  They seemed to make him as nervous as they did Vivenna.  Perhaps more so.  However, she was glad to have him.  He was one of the few people she trusted not to go to her father; she knew that Parlin fancied her.  During their youth, he’d often brought her gifts from the forest.  Usually, those had taken the form of some animal he’d killed.
	To Parlin’s mind, nothing showed affection like a hunk of something dead and bleeding on the table.
	“This place is strange,”  Parlin said.  “People here move like herds.”  His eyes followed a pretty Hallandren girl as she walked by.  The hussy was--like most of the women in T’Telir--wearing practically nothing.  Blouses that were open well below the neck, skirts well above the knees--some women even wore trousers, just like men.  
	“What did you discover in the market?” she asked, drawing his attention back.
	“There are a lot of Idrians here,” he said.  
	“What?” Vivenna said, forgetting herself and showing her shock. 
	“Idrians,” Parlin said.  “In the market.  Some were trading goods; many looked like common laborers.  I watched them.”
	Vivenna frowned, folding her arms.  “And the restaurant?” Vivenna asked.  “Did you scout it as I asked?”
	He nodded.  “Looks clean.  Feels strange to me that people eat food made by strangers.  
	“Did you see anyone suspicious there?”
	“What would be ‘suspicious’ in this city?”
	“I don’t know.  You’re the one who insisted on scouting ahead.”
	“It’s always a good idea when hunting.  Less likely to scare away the animals.”
	“Unfortunately, Parlin,” Vivenna said, “people aren’t like animals.”
	“I am aware of that,” Parlin said.  “Animals make sense.”
	Vivenna sighed.  However, she did notice just then that Parlin had been right on at least one count.  She caught sight of a group of Idrians walking along the street nearby, one pulling a cart that had probably once held produce.  They were easy to distinguish by their muted dress and the slight accent to their voices.  It surprised her that they would come so far to trade.  But, admittedly, commerce hadn’t been particularly robust in Idris lately.  
	Reluctantly, she closed her eyes and--using the shawl to hide the transformation--changed her hair from gray to brown.  If there were other Idrians in town, it was unlikely that she would stand out.  Trying to act like an old woman would be more suspicious.  
	It still felt wrong to be exposed.  In Bevalis, she’d have been recognized instantly.  Of course, Bevalis had only a few thousand people in it.  The vastly greater scale of T’Telir would require a conscious adjustment. 
	She gestured to Parlin and--gritting her teeth--joined the crowd and began making her way toward the marketplace.  
	The inland sea made all the difference.  T’Telir was a prime port, and the dyes it sold--made from the Tears of Edgli, a local flower--made it a center of trade.  She could see the evidence all around her.  Exotic silks and clothing.  Brown skinned traders from Tedradel with their long black beards bound with tight leather cords into cylindrical shapes.  Fresh foodstuffs from cities along the coast.  In Idris, the population was spread out thinly across the farms and rangelands.  In Hallandren--a country which controlled a good third of the inland sea’s coast--things were different.  They could burgeon.  Grow.  
	Get flamboyant.
	In the distance, she could see the plateau that held the Court of Gods, the most profane place beneath Austre’s colorful eyes.  Inside its walls, within the God King’s terrible palace, Siri was being held captive, prisoner of Susebron himself.  Logically, Vivenna understood, her father’s decision.  In raw political terms, Vivenna was more valuable to Idris.  If war was certain, it made sense to send the less useful daughter as a stalling tactic.
	But it was hard for Vivenna to think of Siri as “less useful.”  She was gregarious, but she’d also been the one who smiled when others were down.  She was the one who brought gifts when nobody was expecting them.  She was infuriating, but also innocent.  She was Vivenna’s baby sister, and someone had to look out for her.
	The God King would demand an heir.  That was to have been Vivenna’s duty--her sacrifice for her people.  She had been prepared and willing.  It felt wrong for Siri to have to do something so terrible.
	Her father had made his decision; the best one for Idris.  Vivenna had made her own.  If there was going to be war, then Vivenna wanted to be ready to get her sister out of the city the moment it got dangerous.  In fact, Vivenna felt there had to be a way to rescue Siri before the war came--a way of fooling the Hallandrens, making them think that Siri had died.  Something that would save Vivenna’s sister, yet not further provoke hostilities. 
	This wasn’t something her father could condone.  So she hadn’t told him.  Better for him to be able to deny involvement if things went wrong.  
	Vivenna moved down the street, eyes downcast, careful to not draw attention to herself.  Getting away from Idris had been surprisingly easy.  Who would suspect such a brash move from Vivenna--she who had always been perfect?  Nobody wondered when she’d asked for food and supplies, explaining that she wanted to make emergency kits.  Nobody questioned when she’d proposed an expedition to the higher reaches to gather important roots, an excuse to disguise the first few weeks of her disappearance.
	Parlin had been easy enough to persuade.  He trusted her, perhaps too much, and he had intimate knowledge of the paths and trails leading down to Hallandren.  He’d been as far as the city walls on one scouting trip a year back.  With his help, she’d been able to recruit a few of his friends--also woodsmen--to protect her and be part of her ‘expedition’.   She’d sent the rest of them back earlier that morning.  They would be of little use in the city, where she had already arranged for other allies to be her protection.  Parlin’s friends would carry word to her father, who would already have heard of what she’d done.  Before leaving, she’d arranged for her maid to deliver a letter to him about the time when her absence would begin to look suspicious.  Counting off the days, she realized that her letter would be delivered that very evening.
	She didn’t know what her father’s reaction would be.  Perhaps he would send soldiers to retrieve her, though they would have to be covert.  Perhaps he’d leave her be.  She’d warned him that if she weren’t given time to assess whether or not Siri could be rescued, she would simply go to the Court of Gods, explain that there had been a mistake, and trade herself for her sister.  She’d warned that if she saw any hint of Idris soldiers searching for her in the city, she’d take that step immediately.
	She sincerely hoped she wouldn’t have to.  The God King was not to be trusted; he might take Vivenna captive and keep Siri, thereby providing him with two princesses to provide pleasure instead of one.
	Don’t think about that, Vivenna told herself, pulling her shawl closer despite the heat. 
	Better to find another way.   Part of Vivenna knew there was a chance she wouldn’t be able to find one.  Yet she’d had to come, had to do something.  At least try. 
	The first step was to find Lemex, her father’s chief spy in Hallandren.  Vivenna had corresponded with him on several occasions.  Her father had wanted her to be familiar with his best intelligence agent in T’Telir, should she need him during her reign as Susebron’s queen.  Her father’s foresight would work against him.  Lemex knew Vivenna, and had been told to take orders from her.  She’d sent the spy a letter--delivered via a messenger with multiple mounts to allow quick delivery--the day she’d left Idris.  Assuming the message had arrived safely, the spy would meet her in the appointed restaurant.
	Her plan seemed good.  She was prepared.  Why, then, did she feel so utterly daunted when she entered the market?
	She stood quietly, a rock in the stream of human traffic flooding down the street.  It was such an enormous expanse, covered in tents, pens, buildings, and people.  There were no cobblestones here, only sand and dirt with the occasional patch of grass, and there didn’t appear to be much reason or direction to the arrangement of buildings.  The arbitrary streets had simply been made where people felt like going.  Merchants yelled out what they sold, banners waved in the wind, and entertainers vied for attention.  It was an orgy of color and motion.
	“Wow,” Parlin said quietly.
	Vivenna turned, shaking off her stupor.  “Weren’t you just here?”
	“Yeah,” Parlin said, eyes a little glazed over.  “Wow again.”
	Vivenna shook her head.  “Let’s go to the restaurant.”
	Parlin nodded.  “This way.”  
	Vivenna followed him, annoyed.  This was Hallandren--she shouldn’t be awed by it.  She should be disgusted.  Yet she was so overwhelmed that it was hard to feel anything beyond a slight sense of sickness.  She’d never realized how much she took Idris’ beautiful simplicity for granted.  
	Parlin’s familiar presence was welcome as the powerful wave of scents, sounds, and sights tried to drown her.  In some places the crowds grew so thick that they had to shove their way through.  On occasion, Vivenna found herself on the edge of panic, pressed in by dirty, repulsively colored bodies.  Blessedly, the restaurant wasn’t too far in, and they arrived just when she thought the sheer excess of the place would make her scream.  On its signboard out front, the restaurant had a picture of a boat sailing merrily.  If the scents coming from inside were any indication, then the ship represented the restaurant’s cuisine:  Fish.  Vivenna barely kept herself from gagging.  She’d eaten fish several times in preparation for her life in Hallandren.  She’d never grown to like it.
	Parlin walked in, immediately stepping to the side and crouching, almost like a wolf, as he let his eyes adjust to the dimness.  Vivenna gave the restaurant keeper the fake name Lemex knew to call her by.  The restaurant keeper eyed Parlin, then shrugged and led the two of them to one of the tables on the far side of the room.  Vivenna sat down; despite her training, she was a little uncertain what one did at a restaurant.  It said seemed significant to her that places like restaurants could exist in Hallandren--places meant to feed not travelers, but the locals who couldn’t be bothered to prepare their own food and dine at their own homes.
	Parlin didn’t sit, but remained standing beside her chair, watching the room.  He looked as tense as she felt.  “Vivenna,” he said softly, leaning down.  “Your hair.”
	She started, realizing that her hair had lightened from the trauma of pushing her way through the crowd.  It hadn’t bleached completely white--she was far too well trained for that--but it had grown whiter, like it had been powdered.
	Feeling a jolt of paranoia, Vivenna replaced the shawl on her head, looking away as the restaurant owner approached to take their order.  A short list of meals was scratched into the table, and Parlin finally sat down, drawing the restaurant owner’s attention away from Vivenna.  
	You’re better than this, she told herself sternly.  You’ve studied Hallandren for most of your life.   Her hair darkened, returning to its brown.  The change was subtle enough that if someone had been watching, they would have probably thought it to be a trick of the light.  She kept the shawl up, feeling ashamed.  One walk through the market, and she lost control?
	Think of Siri, she told herself.  That gave her strength.  Her mission was impromptu, even reckless, but it was important.  Calm once again, she put the shawl back down and waited while Parlin chose a dish--a seafood stew--and the innkeeper walked away.
	“Now what?” Parlin asked.
	“We wait,” Vivenna said.  “In my letter, I told Lemex to check the restaurant each day at noon.  We will sit here until he arrives.”
	Parlin nodded, fidgeting.  
	“What is it?” Vivenna asked calmly.
	He glanced toward the door.  “I don’t trust this place, Vivenna.  I can’t smell anything but bodies and spices, can’t hear anything but the chatter of people.  There’s no wind, no trees, no rivers, just. . .people.”
	“I know.”
	“I want to go back outside,” he said.
	“What?” she said.  “Why?”
	“If you aren’t familiar with a place,” he said awkwardly, “you need to become familiar with it.”  He gave no other explanation.  
	Vivenna felt a stab of fear at the thought of being left alone.  However, it wasn’t proper to demand Parlin stay and attend her.  “Do you promise to stay close?”
	He nodded.
	“Then go.”
	He did, walking from the room.  He didn’t move like one of the Hallandrens--his motions were too fluid, too much like a prowling beast.  Perhaps I should have sent him back with the others.  But the thought of being completely alone had been too much.  She needed someone to help her find Lemex.  As it was, she felt that she was probably taking too great a risk at entering the city with only one guard, even one as skilled as Parlin. 
	But it was done.  No use worrying now.  She sat, arms folded on the table, thinking.  Back in Idris, her plan to save Siri had seemed simpler.  Now the true nature of it lay before her.  Somehow, she had to get into the Court of Gods and sneak her sister out.  How would one accomplish something so audacious?  Surely the Court of Gods would be well guarded. 
	Lemex will have ideas, she told herself.  We don’t have to do anything yet.  I’m--
	A man sat down at her table.  Less colorfully dressed than most Hallandrens, he wore an outfit made mostly of brown leather, though he did have a token red cloth vest thrown over the top.  This was not Lemex.  The spy was an older man in his fifties.  The man sitting with her had a long face and styled hair, and couldn’t have been older than thirty-five. 
	“I hate being a mercenary,” the man said.  “You know why?”
	Shocked, Vivenna sat frozen, mouth opened slightly. 
	“The prejudice,” the man said.  “Everyone else, they work, they ask for recompense, and they are respected for it.  Not mercenaries.  We get a bad name just for doing our job.  How many minstrels get spat on for accepting payment from the highest bidder?  How many bakers feel guilty for selling more of pastries to one man, then selling those same pastries to the man’s enemies?”  He eyed her.  “No.  Only the mercenary.  Unfair, wouldn’t you say?”
	“W. . .who are you?” Vivenna finally managed to ask.  She jumped as another man sat down on her other side.  Large of girth, this man had a cudgel strapped to his back.  A colorful bird was sitting on the end of it.
	“I’m Denth,” the first man said, taking her hand and shaking it.  “That’s Tonk Fah.”
	“Pleased,” Tonk Fah said, taking her hand once Denth was through with it.
	“Unfortunately, princess,” Denth said, “we’re here to kill you.”
 
Chapter Ten

	Vivenna’s hair instantly bleached to a stark white.  
	Think! she told herself.  You’ve been trained in politics!  You studied hostage negotiation.  But. . .what do you do when you are the hostage?
	Suddenly, the two men burst out laughing.  The larger man thumped the table several times with his hand, causing his bird to squawk.
	“Sorry, princess,” Denth--the thinner man--said, shaking his head.  “Just a bit of mercenary humor.”
	“We kill sometimes, but we don’t murder,” Tonk Fah said.  “That’s assassin work.”
	“Assassins,” Denth said, holding up a finger.  “Now, they get respect.  Why do you suppose that is?  They’re really just mercenaries with fancier names.  Institutional bias, I tell you.”
	Vivenna blinked, struggling to get control of her nerves.  “You’re not here to kill me,” she said, voice stiff.  “So you’re just going to kidnap me?”
	“Gods, no,” Denth said.  “Bad business, that.  How do you make money at it?  Every time you kidnap someone worth the ransom, you upset people a whole lot more powerful than you are.”
	“Don’t make important people angry,” Tonk Fah said, yawning.  “Unless you’re getting paid by people who are even more powerful.”
	Denth nodded.  “And that isn’t even considering the feeding and care of captives, the exchanging of ransom notes, and the arranging of drop-offs.  It’s a headache, I tell you.  Terrible way to make money.”
	The table fell silent.  Vivenna placed her hands flat on its top to keep them from quivering.  They know who I am, she thought, forcing herself to think logically.  Either they recognize me, or. . . .
	“You work for Lemex,” she said.
	Denth smiled widely.  “See Tonk?  He said she was a clever one.”
	“Guess that’s why she’s a princess and we’re just mercenaries,” Tonk Fah said.
	Vivenna frowned.  Are they mocking me or not?  “Where is Lemex?  Why didn’t he come himself?”
	Denth smiled again, nodding toward the restaurant owner as the man brought a large pot of steaming stew to the table.  It smelt of hot spices, and had what appeared to be crab claws floating in it.  The owner dropped a group of wooden spoons to the table, then retreated.
	Denth and Tonk Fah didn’t wait for permission to eat her meal.  “Your friend,” Denth said, grabbing a spoon, “Lemex--our employer--isn’t doing so well.”
	“Fevers,” Tonk Fah said between slurps.
	“He requested that we bring you to him,” Denth said.  He handed her a folded piece of paper with one hand, while cracking a claw between three fingers of the other.  Vivenna cringed as he slurped the contents out.
	Princess, the paper read.  Please trust these men.  Denth has served me well for some measure now, and he is loyal--if any mercenary can be called loyal.  He and his men have been paid, and I am confident he will stay true to us for the duration of his contract.  I offer proof of authenticity by virtue of this password: Bluemask.
	The writing was in Lemex’ hand.  More than that, he had given the proper password.  Not ‘bluemask’--that was misdirection.  The true password was using the word ‘measure’ instead of time.  She glanced at Denth, who slurped out the insides of another claw.
	“Ah, now,” he said, tossing aside the shell.  “This is the tricky part; she has to make a decision.  Are we telling her the truth, or are we fooling her?  Have we fabricated that letter?  Or maybe we took the old spy captive and tortured him, forcing him to write the words.”
	“We could bring you his fingers as proof of our good faith,” Tonk Fah said.  “Would that help?
	Vivenna raised an eyebrow.  “Mercenary humor?”
	“Such that it is,” Denth said with a sigh.  “We’re not generally a clever lot.  Otherwise, we’d probably have selected a profession without such a high mortality rate.”
	“Like your profession, princess,” Tonks said.  “Good life-spans, usually.  I’ve often wondered if I should apprentice myself to one.”
	Vivenna frowned as the two men chuckled.  Lemex wouldn’t have broken under torture, she thought.  He’s too well trained.  Even if he had broken, he wouldn’t have included both the real password and the false one.
	“Let’s go,” she said, standing.
	“Wait,” Tonk Fah said, spoon to lips, “we’re skipping the rest of our meal?” 
	Vivenna eyed the red-colored soup and its bobbing crustacean limbs.  “Definitely.”
#
	Lemex coughed quietly.  His aged face was streaked with sweat, his skin clammy and pale, and he occasionally gave a whispered mumble of delirious ramblings.
	Vivenna sat on a stool beside his bed, hands in her lap.  The two mercenaries waited with Parlin at the back of the room.  The only other person present was a solemn nurse--the same woman who had informed Vivenna in a quiet voice that nothing more could be done.
	Lemex was dying.  It was unlikely that he would last the day.
	This was the first Vivenna had seen Lemk’s face, though she’d often corresponded with him.  The face looked. . .wrong.  She knew that Lemex was growing old; that made him a better spy, for few looked for spies among the elderly.  Yet he wasn’t supposed to be this frail stick of a person, shaking and coughing.  He was supposed to be a spry, quick-tongued old gentleman.  That was what she had imagined.
	She felt like she was losing one of her dearest friends, though she had never really known him.  With him went her refuge in Hallandren, her secret advantage.  He was the one she had supposed would make this insane plan of hers work.  The skilled, crafty mentor she had counted on having at her side.
	He coughed again.  The nurse glanced at Vivenna.  “He goes in an out of lucidity, my lady.  Just this morning, he spoke of you, but now he’s getting worse and worse. . . .”
	“Thank you,” Vivenna said quietly.  “You are excused.”
	The woman bowed and left.
	Now it is time to be princess, Vivenna thought, rising and leaning over Lemex’ bed.
	“Lemex,” she said.  “I need you to pass on your knowledge.  How do I contact your spy networks?  Where are the other Idris agents in the city?  What are the passcodes that will get them to listen to me?”
	He coughed, staring unseeingly, whispering something.  She leaned closer.
	“. . .never say it,” he said.  “You can torture me all that you want.  I won’t give in.”
	Vivenna sat back.  By design, the Idrian spy network in Hallandren was loosely organized.  Her father knew all of their agents, but Vivenna had only ever communicated with Lemex, the leader and coordinator of the network.  She gritted her teeth, leaning forward again.  She felt like a grave robber as she shook Lemex’ head slightly. 
	“Lemex, look at me.  I’m not here to torture you.  I’m the princess.  You received a letter from me earlier.  Now I’ve come to you.”
	“Can’t fool me,” the old man whispered.  “Your torture is nothing.  I won’t give it up.  Not to you.”
	Vivenna sighed, looking away.
	Suddenly, Lemex shuddered, and a wave of color washed across the bed, over Vivenna, and pulsed along the floor before fading.  Despite herself, Vivenna stepped back in shock. 
	Another pulse came.  It wasn’t color itself.  It was a wave of enhanced color--a ripple that made the hues in the room stand out more as it passed.  The floor, the sheets, her own dress--it all flared to vibrant vividness for a second, then faded back to the original hues.
	“What in Austre’s name was that?” Vivenna asked.
	“BioChromatic Breath, princess,” Denth said as he stood, leaning against the door frame.  “Old Lemex has a lot of it.  Couple hundred Breaths, I’d guess.”
	“That’s impossible,” Vivenna said.  “He’s Idrian.  He’d never accept Breath.”
	Denth shot a look at Tonk Fah, who was scratching his parrot’s neck.  The bulky soldier just shrugged.  
	Another wave of color came from Lemex.
	“He’s dying, princess,” Denth said.  “His Breath is going irregular.”
	Vivenna glared at Denth.  “He doesn’t have--”
	Something grabbed her arm.  She jumped, looking down at Lemex, who had managed to reach up and take hold of her.  He was focused on her face.  “Princess Vivenna,” he said, eyes showing some lucidity at least.  
	“Lemex,” she said.  “Your contacts.  You have to give them to me!”
	“I’ve done something bad, princess.”
	She froze.
	“Breath, princess,” he said.  “I inherited it from my predecessor, and I’ve bought more.  A lot more. . . .”
	God of Colors. . . . Vivenna thought with a sick feeling in her stomach.
	“I know it was wrong,” Lemex whispered.  “But. . .I felt so powerful.  I could make the very dust of the earth obey my command.  It was for the good of Idris!  Men with Breath are respected here in Hallandren.  I could get into parties where I normally would have been excluded.  I could go to the Court of Gods when I wished and hear the court assembly.  The Breath extended my life, made me spry despite my age.  I. . . .”
	He blinked, eyes unfocusing.
	“Oh, Austre,” he whispered.  “I’ve damned myself.  I’ve gained notoriety through abusing the souls of others.  And now I’m dying. . . .”
	“Lemex!” Vivenna said.  “Don’t think about that now.  Names!  I need names and passcodes.  Don’t leave me alone!”
	“Damned,” he whispered.  “Someone take it.  Please take it away from me!”
	Vivenna tried to pull back, but he still held onto her arm.  She shuddered, thinking about the Breath he held.
	“You know, princess,” Denth said from behind.  “Nobody really tells mercenaries anything.  It’s an unfortunate--but very realistic--drawback of our profession.  Never trusted.  Never looked to for advice.”
	She glanced back at him.  He leaned against the door, Tonk Fah a short distance away.  Parlin stood there as well, holding that ridiculous green hat in his fingers.
	“Now, if someone were to ask my opinion,” Denth continued, “I’d point out how much those Breaths are worth.  Sell them, and you’d have enough money to buy your own spy network--or pretty much anything else you wanted.”
	Vivenna looked back at the dying man.  He was mumbling to himself.
	“If he dies,” Denth said, “that Breath dies with him.  All of it.”
	“A shame,” Tonk Fah said.
	Vivenna paled. “I will not traffic in the souls of men!  I don’t care how much they’re worth.”
	“Suit yourself,” Denth said.  “Hope nobody suffers when your mission fails, though.”
	Siri. . . .
	“No,” Vivenna said, partially to herself.  “I couldn’t take them.”  It was true.  Even the thought of letting someone else’s Breath mingle with her own--the idea of drawing another person’s soul into her own body--made her sick.
	Vivenna turned back to the dying spy.  His BioChroma was burning brightly now, and his sheets practically glowed.  It was better to let that Breath die with him. 
	Yet without Lemex, she would have no help in the city, no one to guide her and provide refuge for her.  She’d barely brought along enough money to cover lodging and meals, let alone bribes or supplies.  She told herself that taking the Breath would be like using goods one had found in a bandit’s cavern.  Did you throw it away just because it had originally been acquired through crime?  Her training and lessons whispered that she needed resources badly, and that the damage had already been done. . . . 
	No! she thought again.  It just isn’t right!  I can’t hold it.  I couldn’t.
	Of course, perhaps it would be wise to let someone else hold the Breaths for a time.  Then she could think about what to do with them at her leisure.  Maybe. . .maybe even find the people they had been taken from and give them back.  She turned back, glancing at Denth and Tonk Fah.   
	“Don’t look at me like that, princess,” Denth said, chuckling.  “I see the glint in your eyes.  I’m not going to keep that Breath for you.  Having that much BioChroma makes a man far too important.”
	Tonk Fah nodded.  “It’d be like hiking about the city with a bag of gold on your back.”
	“I like my Breath the way it is,” Denth said.  “I only need one, and it’s functioning just fine.  Keeps me alive, doesn’t draw attention to me, and sits there waiting to be sold if I need it.” 
	Vivenna glanced at Parlin.  But. . .no, she couldn’t force the Breath on him.  She turned back to Denth.  “What kind of things does your agreement with Lemex provide for?” 
	Denth glanced at Tonk Fah, then glanced back at her.  The look in his eyes was enough.  He was paid to obey.  He’d take the Breath if she commanded it. 
	“Come here,” she said, nodding to a stool beside her.
	Denth approached reluctantly.  “You know, princess,” he said, sitting.  “If you give me that Breath, then I could just run off with it.  I’d be a wealthy man.  You wouldn’t want to put that kind of temptation into the hands of an unscrupulous mercenary now, would you?”
	She hesitated.  
	If he runs off with it, then what do I loose?  That would solve a lot of problems for her.  “Take it,” she ordered.
	He shook his head.  “That’s not the way it works.  Our friend there has to give it to me.”
	She looked at the old man.  “I. . . .”  She began to command Lemex to do just that, but she had second thoughts.  Austre wouldn’t want her to take the Breath, no matter what the circumstances--a man who took Breath from others was worse than a slaver. 
	“No,” she said.  “No, I’ve changed my mind.  We won’t take the Breath.”
	At that moment, Lemex stopped his mumbling.  He looked up, meeting Vivenna’s eyes.  
	His hand was still on her arm.
	“My life to yours,” he said in an eerily clear voice, his grip tight on her arm as she jumped back.  “My Breath become yours!”
	A vibrant cloud of shifting, iridescent air burst from his mouth, puffing toward her.  Vivenna closed her mouth, eyes wide, hair white.  She ripped her arm free from Lemex’ grip, even as his face grew dull, his eyes losing their luster, the colors around him fading.  
	The Breath shot toward her.  Her closed mouth had no effect; the Breath struck, hitting her like a physical force, washing across her body.  She gasped, falling to her knees, body quivering with a perverse pleasure.  She could suddenly feel the other people in the room.  She could sense them watching her.  And--as if a light had been lit--everything around her become more vibrant, more real, and more alive.
	She gasped, shaking in awe.  She vaguely heard Parlin rushing to her side, speaking her name.  But, oddly, the only thing she could think of was the melodic quality of his voice.  She could pick out each tone in every word he spoke.  She knew them instinctively.
	Austre, God of Colors! she thought, steadying herself with one hand against the wooden floor as the shakes subsided.  What have I done?
